Unusual Faithfulness
2021-10-25
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6pdaSSBag84

Well, good morning. Thanks for coming. It's good to see you again. My name is Ryan and privilege of being one of the pastors here. And I am so pumped to dive back into the book of Daniel as we have just been going chapter by chapter through the book of Daniel. If you are newer here, I'm going to do a quick review so that we all get on the same page, let you know where we're going to go for the rest of this series. Then we'll pray and we will dive into the book. But up front, I want to celebrate something awesome. Maybe some of you noticed and maybe some of you didn't. Did you see that we had a new member on the worship team that just about met the minimum height requirement? You know, I used to have

a mentor that always said that kids are not the church of tomorrow, they're the church of today. And I just thought that was so awesome to see her hop in and serve our church like that. So that's really cool. So where we've been in the book of Daniel, throughout this series, we've said that the Bible isn't just about what happened, but it's about what always happens. And what we mean when we say that is we believe that Daniel is a real historical character, that he lived a real historical life in and around the nation of Babylon. And we believe that Babylon is a real place. And all of these things actually happened. But we also believe that God preserved this story for us, because it teaches us something about ourselves, right? We believe that the enemy works throughout secular cultures from the beginning up until now.

And oftentimes the Bible refers to secular culture as Babylon, right? Like the enemy is working behind secular culture to get people to not live for God's hands, but to live for the world. And so as we look at the book of Daniel, yes, we're looking at a real figure, but we're also looking at somebody that we can follow the example of, right? The book of Daniel was written to inspire hope in the hearts of believers in every generation that just as Daniel and his friends were able to be faithful in the midst of a secular culture that was trying to get them to live for lesser things than if we can follow his example. But his example is just a shadow of Jesus that ultimately we have characters like Daniel to point us to the ultimate example of faithfulness in Jesus, that we can overcome the enemy, that we can have an

influence in secular culture because of who Jesus is and what he's done. That's what we've looked at all throughout the book. And this week we're going to wrap up the narrative section of this book with probably the most famous story in the book of Daniel. Even if you did not grow up going to church, you've probably heard about Daniel and the lion's den. So the first six chapters of the book of Daniel are the narrative story. They, they, they get us from how Daniel got activity in Babylon at a young age all the way up until now. He is a old 80 year old man in Babylon and Babylon has been taken over by the Medes and the Persians. And this is kind of the end of the narrative section. And then next week we're going to wrap up

the whole series with which if you're familiar with the Bible, you know, there's six more chapters in Daniel. You're like, you're going to preach six chapters in one week. We're going to pack a lunch, right? Um, so the, the last six chapters are about prophecy and end times. And so I'm just going to summarize all of that in one week here in this with Michelle this week. She said, sick, you're going to preach on the end times on Halloween. And I was, she was like, you guys plan that? No, we didn't. Um, but it's awesome. We're going to preach on the end times on Halloween. It's going to be great. Um, so that's kind of where we are headed for the rest of this series. Let me pray and then we'll hop into our texts and walk through it this morning. Father, we are so grateful, um, for the lessons that

we've learned through the book of Daniel up until this point. We're thankful for Daniel, who is a historical figure who lived a faithful life in the midst of persecution, in the midst of suffering, in the midst of difficulty, he stood, um, for truth. He was faithful and his faithfulness is an example, a shadow of ultimately the perfect faithfulness of Jesus, who you sent to give us an example of how to live our lives. God, help us to see Jesus through the book of Daniel this morning. Help us to understand how we should live in light of who Jesus is and what he's done moving forward. It's in Jesus name. I pray. Amen. Well, if you have your Bibles, I'd love to have you turn to Daniel chapter six, uh, flipping pages or opening up your apps, um, to get to Daniel chapter six. That'd be great. As you're

turning there, um, a little bit of participation from the audience. Uh, how many of you would say that you regularly, um, have your finances on a budget with margin? If you have a budget and that budget includes margin, do me a favor, raise your hand. I will raise my hand and then put it down and then put it back up again, because sometimes I do this well. Uh, sometimes I don't do this so well. My wife and I went through a Dave Ramsey course, not too many years ago and we got on track and things were great. And then I like nice things and I don't make a lot of money. So in order to buy nice things, there's not always the most margin in my budget, but you know, we'll, we'll figure it out

one of these days. Um, but here's the beauty about having a budget with some of you guys are like, Ryan, I have student loans. There's no such thing as a budget with margins, margins when you have student loans. And I get that. I've been there, done that. Um, but here's the beautiful thing about having a budget with margins is, is you, you live the usual months, right? Like usual months, you know how much is going to come in and how much is going to go out for the most part. There's some variables in there, but for the most part, you know what usual months look like. And so when you budget with margin during the usual months, what happens when the unusual months come up is you're prepared, you're ready. You know, what's you, you have a pile of finances

ready for the unusual times. I say that because I think the overarching point that we're going to come back to all throughout the book of, uh, or all throughout Daniel chapter six is this, that usual faithfulness to God prepares us for faith, unusual circumstances of life that usual faithfulness to God. So, so, so like budgeting with margin, right? Like, you know, what's coming in, you know, what's going out, but, but you prepare for the unusual time. See, Daniel lived his life in such a way where he was faithful in the regular days. Like he was, he was regularly committed to building his life on a relationship with the one true and living God. He did that day in and day out consistently during regular times. So that when hard times come, when unusual times come, he was ready,

he was prepared. We're going to keep coming back to this point. As we go throughout the book of Daniel chapter six, we're going to see that usual faithfulness to God prepares us for faithfulness in unusual circumstances. Look with me in Daniel chapter six, starting in verse one says Darius, the Mede decided to divide the kingdom into 120 provinces. So last week we ended it. King Nebuchadnezzar's grandson, Bells are, um, not Belshazzar. What is it?

Is that right? All right. His grandson, Belshazzar, um, did some bad things and ultimately God decided to take the kingdom away from him. And that very night, the Medes and the Persians marched in under the walls. They dammed up the river and marched in under the walls. And now, uh, Daniel finds himself yet again under the leadership of a Darius, the Mede. He decided to divide the kingdoms into 120 provinces and he appointed a high officer to rule each province. The king also chose Daniel and two other administrators to supervise the high officers and to protect the king's interests. So you can imagine, um, Babylon was a nation run by power, right? The rule of law was power and military force. And now the Medes and the Persians are going to come in and they are a government run by the rule of law. And so what we

have here is he's kind of setting up 120 different judges all throughout the land. And then he's going to appoint Daniel and two other people as the Supreme court. So this is kind of how the government's going to work, right? There's 120 judges, just like America has a bunch of different local and district courts. And then over those district courts are the Supreme courts. So, um, Darius, the Mede sets this up. There's 120 judges. And then Daniel finds himself being one of the Supreme judges, which is pretty epic. If you think about it, he's an old man at this point. Um, and it says Daniel soon proved himself more capable than all the other administrators and high officers because of Daniel's great ability. The King made plans to place him over the entire empire. Then listen to this, the other administrators

and high officers, they began searching for some fault in the way that Daniel was handling his government affairs, but they couldn't find anything to criticize or condemn. So Darius, the Daniel is so good at his job. I'm going to find a way to even promote him above being one of the three Supreme court judges. It's going to be me, Daniel, and then the Supreme court justices, and then the 120 judges. And obviously his coworkers are not so thrilled about this because he's not even a part of their nation, right? Like he's an exile from, uh, Jerusalem and he's not even a part of the Medes and the Persians and he's going to be number two in command. They don't like this. So they look for a way, um, to figure out how to get him in trouble and they can't. Um, and then it says verse four, it says Daniel was handling the

government affairs, but they couldn't find anything to criticize or condemn. Why? He was faithful, always responsible and completely trustworthy. If you write in your Bible, I'd love to encourage you to circle, highlight, underline. Daniel was faithful. Daniel was always responsible and he was completely trustworthy. So they concluded our only chance of finding grounds for accusing Daniel will be in connection with the rules of his religion. If we're going to get him in trouble, we've got to attack his faith in God because that's the one thing. That's the one place he's susceptible to an attack. So the administrators and high officers went to the King and said, long live King Darius. Listen to this. We are all in agreement. Is everybody in agreement? We'll find out here in a second. We are all in agreement. We administrators, officials, high officers, advisors, and governors that the King make a law that

will be strictly enforced. Give orders that for the next 30 days, any, any person who prays to anyone, divine or human, except for you, your majesty will be thrown into the den of wine to King Darius. And they lie to him. They say all the administrators. Well, Daniel is one of the administrators, and I don't think he signed off on this rule, but they say, all of us are in agreement. We think you're so good at being King. Like you're so epic. You're pretty much God. So why don't you make a decree that for the next 30 days, nobody's allowed to pray to anyone except for you. So King Darius signed the law. But when Daniel learned that the law had been signed, he went home, knelt down again. If you write in your Bible,

circle, highlight, underline, as usual, in his upstairs room, with his windows open towards Jerusalem, he prayed three times a day, just as he had always done, giving thanks to his God. Daniel's life was built on the usualness to God. No matter what circumstances he found himself in, all throughout his life, his life was built on these principles. He usually got down on his knees three times a day and prayed. He was so consistent. He was so faithful with these practices that his enemies, these other administrators knew. They knew for a fact that if they didn't agree that he couldn't pray to God, that he would be there praying to God. Daniel built his life on faithfulness to God, unusual times, and that prepared him to be faithful even in unusual times when he found himself under

spiritual attack, when he found himself under the difficulties of life, when he found himself being persecuted by a secular government that didn't value the same things he valued because of his faithfulness in usual times. He found himself prepared and ready to be faithful in unusual times. See, Daniel's life was a roller coaster. He found himself employed by different forms of government, in slavery, out of slavery, in positions of employment, in retirement and out of retirement. Daniel's life was up and down and all around. He lived in captivity to a foreign nation and found himself in all kinds of different circumstances. But at the end of all of it, the Bible says that he was known for his faithfulness, his responsibility, and his trustworthiness. See, we can be tempted to read stories like this and think that Daniel is some kind of superhuman spiritual being that the angels just carried into

Babylon so that he could perfectly fulfill his responsibility. But what we got to get back to is this. Daniel's a real person with real struggles. Daniel had a really difficult life.

And we read a couple of these epic stories in the book of Daniel and see how God used Daniel in some miraculous ways. But the reality is Daniel was just a normal person, an ordinary guy who regularly decided to be faithful in usual circumstances, which prepared him for faithfulness in unusual circumstances. Like the Daniel we see. The Daniel we see responding to these dreams and this is a Daniel that is just faithful to God in ordinary situations. Daniel's reputation to the watching world was not built around his personality type, his job title, his family of origin, or anything else temporary. Daniel's reputation to the watching world was built on his personal relationship with the one true and living God. These other administrators, his enemies, the people that wanted to see him gone, they knew that the reason he was

faithful, the reason he was trustworthy, was because of his religion. See that in in verse uh five they say the only chance we find of having grounds to accuse Daniel will be in connection with the rules of his religion. He was such a faithful guy that they knew the only way they would get him in trouble is when it comes to the Scriptures. The other administrators knew they could only charge Daniel by lying. Like he was so faithful. He was such a good dude that the only way they could get him in trouble was by lying. Does that make any of you feel less than? Because I'm sure people could find some things in my life to point to and say that guy should not be in charge because of this or that. Like if I was running for office and they did the whole um what do they do when they go in and they

look through every area of your life for like the last 30 years. If they found my twitter feed if I had one right I'm sure there would be a tweet somewhere that they could accuse me of but Daniel didn't have that. He didn't have that because he was faithful and because twitter didn't exist which you know might be good for all of us. But this reminds me of a passage in Galatians chapter five that a lot of us might be familiar with. If you grew up in Sunday school maybe you sang a song about it. The the fruits of the spirit. Anybody familiar with the fruits of the spirit? Some of you guys memorized that passage. I memorized that passage not as a child but as an adult and I didn't memorize it for the part that we all know but the part at the end right. So the the Scriptures say

that the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. But at the end of that passage it says against these things there is no law. And ultimately what Paul's getting at is if our life is built on faithfulness. If the fruit of our love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Nobody's going to be able to accuse us of any any wrongdoing. There's no law against loving someone. There's no law against being patient with other people. There's no law against being peaceful with other people, right? There's nothing that that our enemies can accuse us of if we're being faithful to God. And that's where Daniel finds himself. He's so faithful to God that the only way that the accusers can accuse Daniel of anything is by lying.

Listen to me this morning, please. Do not build your reputation. Do not build what the what people think about you on the outside. Do not build those things on your personality type, on your Enneagram number, on your job title, on your family of origin, on where you came from, on what you've done, on the things that you've achieved in your job. Do not build your reputation on temporary things. Root your identity and your reputation in your personal relationship with the one true and living God. Build your reputation. Build your life on faithfulness to God because that never goes away. This is what Daniel did in season and out of season. He built his life. How do we do this? How do we build our life on an intentional relationship with God? I'd say, you know, when I was growing up, we called them spiritual disciplines, holy habits, right?

And my generation has gotten away from this. We've gotten away from encouraging people to spend regular time in the word with God, to spend regular time in worship and prayer. We've gotten away from encouraging people to have a journal where they write down things that they're struggling with, where they write down prayer requests, where they keep track of things that God is doing in their life. We got away from encouraging people to have accountability partners. We've gotten away from these things. Why? Because we're afraid that they're going to become legalistic, right? Like, I think my generation saw some legalism in the generation before, and so we swung the pendulum and said, we can have this organic, awesome relationship with God. And we never have to have any of these rules or regulations or lists. And I get that. I

understand the heart of that. But I think the reality is the same way you do with your budget. You sit down each month, you write down, you know, as usual, you know what your monthly schedule looks like when money comes in, when it goes out, you know, to prepare for difficult situations in the future. The same should be true with our relationship with God. We know what our daily schedules look like. We know what our weekly schedules look like. If we're going to prioritize our relationship with God above everything else, we should build those things, the usual rhythms of our life. Because here's what I know to be true. Unusual times are coming. Difficulty is coming for you. And if you do not have your faith, your trust, your identity rooted in your relationship with God, when difficulty comes,

when hardship comes, when the accuser comes and lies to you, if your life isn't rooted in truth, your life will be uprooted really quickly. So I think we've got to be intentional with our spiritual formation. I think there's some ways that we can do it without being legalistic. I'm not here, I'm not going to tell you that you have to get up before the sun rises if you're going to have a good relationship with God. I'm not going to tell you when you should do it. I'm not going to tell you for how long you should do it. I'm not going to tell you exactly what it looks like for you, but I'm telling you, you should do it. You should sit down and you should pray in your relationship with God. You should ask the Holy

Spirit, what should I do to usually and regularly build my relationship with you? What are some holy habits that I can build into my life? John Mark Comer says this. He says that spiritual formation is not a Christian thing, it's a human thing. Spiritual formation is not a Christian thing, it's a human thing. What he's saying there is we're all spiritual beings. And if we're not intentional to to form our spirituality towards God and towards our relationship with God, the world, the culture and our flesh will get us away from that. He ends the quote by saying Christian formation is counter formation to the world, the flesh and Satan. If we're not intentional to take charge of our own spiritual formation to walk towards God in prayer and worship and in trusting the Holy Spirit in our life and finding accountability with other brothers and sisters in Christ, if we

are not intentional, the world, the flesh and our enemy will form our spiritual lives. Spiritual formation isn't a Christian thing. We're all being formed spiritually, but Christian formation is counter to the world, the flesh and Satan. So Daniel builds his life on unusual faithfulness. And that prepares him for this unusual situation where he's told that he cannot pray to God for 30 days. So think with me hypothetically in this situation, like what are Daniel's options? What can Daniel do during these 30 days? Well, he could pause praying for 30 days, right? It's not that long. 30 days is not that long. One month of not praying is not that big of a deal, right? If I was Daniel, I'm in my 80s. I've done all of the things that Daniel's done. I found myself in slavery

to Babylon. I'd be like, God, I'm so old and tired. Like, I really don't want to end my life in the den of lions. Like, you know, I love you. You know, I've been faithful. Can we just take a break? 30 days, right? Like, just give me 30 days. I promise I'll think about you. But if you just give me 30 days so that I don't end in the lions, he could have paused praying. But that would have been unwise for spiritual formation, right? 30 days doesn't sound like a long time, but we know the world, the flesh, and the enemy is spiritually forming us. When we're not spiritually forming ourselves towards God, the world, the flesh, and the enemy will spiritually form us away from God. 30 days is a long time. Daniel knew that wasn't an option for him. Another option, he could have hid

and prayed, right? He didn't have to have his doors open. He didn't have to face Jerusalem. He could have gone into the closet, closed the doors, and prayed for a little bit. But he knew that was unwise for spiritual influence. He knew that the world was watching. He couldn't hide his spirituality. He couldn't hide his relationship with God because he knew that that's what they were looking for. They were going to watch to see how he responded to this attack. And he knew if he hid and prayed that he would lose his spiritual influence over their lives. They would think he's a hypocrite. He only prays when life's good. He only talks to his God when it is convenient for him. He could have got really angry and protested, made some signs, got a couple other good Israelites around, and they could have went into the

street corners with their signs saying, "We're going to pray no matter what. They might have a cool chant." I should have thought of a chant to build into my outline. I didn't. Man, bummer. But he knew this was unwise for a spiritual reputation, right? Like, if he, as an exile in this new nation, went in and said, "You guys have to respect our religious beliefs," he knew that he was going to turn them away from the one true and living God. And his job as an exile in Babylon, as an exile in the Medes and the Persians, was to point people back to the one true and living God. So he did the only thing that he could do as a faithful believer. He kept doing the one thing that he'd always done, as usual.

See, we live in a culture where even if we're being faithful, even if we're doing what God's calling us to do, even if our lives are built on our relationship with God and the fruit of our life is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, our culture still might misunderstand us. They might still think negative thoughts about us. Choosing to continue to be faithful, even in unusual circumstances, it's a great way for us to follow the teaching of Jesus and turn the other cheek. Right? Like Jesus says when we're attacked, when we're smacked, we turn the other cheek. When people come against us, we respond in peace. And this is what Daniel does to his accusers. They bring an accusation against him. He doesn't fight back. Peacefully lives his life in relationship with God. Daniel's faithful in

usual circumstances. It prepares him for faithful, faithfulness in unusual circumstances. It says then the official, the officials, they went together to Daniel's house. They knew where he was going to be. They knew what time he was going to be there because he's there every day as usual. And they found him praying. And, and look at this. What's he doing? He's asking for God's help. See, who knows what Daniel prayed for on a regular basis, but this unusual circumstance is what he needed more than anything else is he needed God's help. Daniel was there praying for God's help. So they went straight to the king and they reminded him about this law. Did you not sign that for the next 30 days, any person who prays to anyone divine or human, except you, your majesty will be thrown into

the den of lions. Yes. The king replied that decision stands. It is an official law of the Medes and Persians that cannot be revoked. Even Darius couldn't revoke his own law. Once he signed it, they then told the king that man, Daniel, one of the captives from Judah is ignoring you and your law. He still prays to God three times a day. Hearing this, listen, the king was deeply troubled. He tried to think of a way to save Daniel. He spent the rest of the day looking for a way to get Daniel out of this predicament. In the evening, the men went together to the king and said, your majesty, you know that according to the law of the Medes and Persians, no law that the king signs can be changed. So at last, the king gave orders for Daniel to be arrested and to be thrown into the den of lions. The king said to

him, may your God whom you serve faithfully rescue you. A stone was brought and placed over the mouth of the den. The king sealed the stone with his own royal seal and the seals of nobles so that no one could rescue Daniel. Then the king returned to his place and he spent the night fasting. He refused his usual entertainment and couldn't sleep at all that night. So we see Daniel being accused. Daniel put in this really unusual situation. He responds in usual faithfulness, even in unusual circumstances. And then we see two different responses from the people on the other side, the people that didn't have a relationship with one true God. We see the administrators and we see Darius. The administrator's response shows us that no matter what we do, we will always have enemies on this earth.

Like no matter how faithful, consistent, trustworthy, respectful, responsible we might live our lives, there will always be people who will find something wrong with the way that we live our lives. We will always have enemies. Don't cripple your life, trying to please everybody. Don't ruin your life, trying to build your life on the reputation of others. Let's build our life on faithfulness to God and trust him with our reputation, even when people find something wrong with the way that we're living our lives. I need my twos on the Enneagram to hear this. I'm a two. I live for the approval of people. We have to get this down to our socks, down in our bones, that no matter how righteous we live our lives, people will find something wrong with us. The administrators were unwilling to see the good

in Daniel. But then we see Darius's response, right? He's like, he's distraught. He sees Daniel's life. He sees Daniel's faithfulness. He knows Daniel doesn't deserve to be where Daniel is about to go. Darius's response shows us what God can do in the hearts of unbelievers when they see us live lives of usual faithfulness that leads us to be faithful in usual times. Darius's heart posture towards Daniel and towards Daniel's God shows us what God can do when we are faithful in the midst of unusual circumstances. Like God uses the testimony of believers suffering well for the sake of Jesus to turn people's eyes towards the one true and living God. And if we're going to be faithful in unusual circumstances, it has to start in the usual circumstances. Like we can't just live ordinary lives where we kind of talk to God every once in a while when we have some extra time. And you know,

we read the Bible once every couple of months when we have some extra time. And then when things go south, when life hits hard, then all of a sudden we're like, all right, it's time. Triage time. Come here. I'm in my prayer closet. You need to show up. You need to be faithful. You need to show me how to be faithful. Like that doesn't happen. Usual faithfulness, regular intentionality with God prepares us for unusual circumstances. And then when we're faithful, God can use that to stir people's hearts to see the one true living God through our life. I think a really cool illustration of this recently in our culture. I read an article this week as I was researching from 2018. And that article was entitled "Coming Out as a Friend of Dan Cathy." It was written by the president of Campus Pride.

He's in a homosexual marriage for the last 20 years. He's a lifelong LGBTQ+ activist. He was in charge of some of the first initial protests of Chick-fil-A, of Dan Cathy. And he wrote this article because of the way that Dan Cathy responded to the protests. See, Dan Cathy didn't hide. He didn't run away from where he was giving his money, from the things that he values in his life. He didn't try and cover these things up. He didn't get angry and demand some protests back in return. They were actually expecting Dan Cathy to do some sales and some things that would discourage people from protesting. Instead, he just kept his mouth shut, continued to be faithful to what God was calling him to be faithful to. And then guess what he did? He reached out to this guy. He said, "Let's have lunch. Let's talk. I'd love to hear

how you got to a place where you're, you so don't like my organization that you want to organize this protest." And then, over the next couple of years, they had lunches together and dinners together. They were in each other's homes. And ultimately, this guy wrote this article. And at the end of the article, he says, "I still don't agree with Dan Cathy's view on marriage. I still don't agree with his politics or where he donates his money. But at the end of the day, he's my friend." And I can't help but think that this story is rooted in Dan Cathy being faithful in usual times. He's doing what he felt like God was calling him to do, building his relationship with God on a brick by day. So this unusual thing came when half of a nation was protesting his nation. He wasn't panicked. He wasn't

afraid of what might happen. He didn't shy away. He just kept being faithful. He kept doing the thing Jesus was calling him to do. And I imagine that as Daniel was being led to the lion's den, I imagine he was reminded of the situation his friends were in not too long ago when they were being marched into the fiery furnace. What his friends said is they said, "God's able to deliver us. God's able to protect us. But even if he doesn't, we're still going to be faithful." I can't help but think that Daniel, as he was going to the lion's den, said to Darius, "Darius, save me from this." But even if he doesn't, I swear to God because one day my God will return. He will make things right. He can save me from

this, but even if he doesn't. Believers, we should develop a faith that expects God to do the miraculous, but where we can learn to be content even if he doesn't. Some of us are in some really difficult situations in life right now when we're praying for miracles. We're believing that God's going to show up and do the miraculous, and we should. We should pray. We should pray our hearts and our minds out. We should pray until the rug on our carpet is worn out from our knee prints. We should pray and beg God to show up for miracles, but we should build a faith that even if he doesn't, we can trust him. Verse 19, "Very early the next morning, the king got up and he hurried out to the lion's den. When he got there, he called out in anguish, "Daniel,

servant of the living God, was your God whom you serve so faithfully able to rescue you from the lions." Daniel answered, "Long live the king. My God sent his angels to shake the lion's mouth so that they would not hurt me, for I have been found innocent in his sight, and I have not wronged you, the king was overjoyed and ordered that Daniel be lifted from the den. Not a scratch was found on him, for he had trusted God." So God shows up. God does the miracle that Daniel knew that rewards faithfulness in usual times with in-the-moment blessings, right? Like if we had time to open up the floor and ask believers in here to raise their hands and share times where God showed up and did the miraculous, did the thing that nobody else thought was possible, I'm sure that we would have

plenty of time filled with testimonies of God showing up. But if we had more time, we'd also have believers who love God, raised their hand, prayed for a miracle, and it didn't happen. See, God doesn't owe us in-the-moment miracles. He doesn't promise in-the-moment miracles. He asks us to pray for them, and sometimes he shows up and blesses us within-the-moment miracles. But Daniel knew that even if God didn't come through with a moment, miracle, he would be faithful to his eternal promises. See, Daniel saw example after example. He promised something, and then God be faithful to deliver on his promises. And so he knew that that God's promises about the end would come true, and they would be worth it. Perfect example of this is in Isaiah chapter 44. Isaiah was written a couple hundred years

years before the book of Daniels to prophesy to the Israelites about their captivity in Babylon. So Daniel had read this book. He knew what was contained in it. And just a couple months before, a couple months or a couple years, we don't know for sure, but not too far after, or not too far before Daniel got cast into the lion's den,

the Medes and the Persians marched under the wall in Babylon because they had dammed up the river. And in Isaiah, 200 years before this ever happened, it says this in Isaiah chapter 44, 44 verse 27 and 28, when God says, when I speak to the rivers and say, dry up, they will be dry. When I say Cyrus, he is my shepherd, he will certainly do as I say. See, God promised 200 years before that he would dry up the river and he would send in Cyrus and Darius and that they would ultimately be the ones that would usher in or usher the Israelites back to the city of Jerusalem so that they could rebuild their temple and rebuild their walls. Daniel knew that even if God didn't show up in his situation in that moment, he knew that God had been faithful to his promises and that God had

ultimately promised him something better. He knew that he could suffer for the sake of God because he knew that what was to come was better. We might not see God shut the mouth of the lions that we are facing today, but there will come a day when God will shut the mouth of every line and all tears and all pain will be wiped away. Hosea says this, on that day, I will make a covenant with all the wild animals, with the birds of the sky and the animals that scurry along on the ground so they will not harm you. Listen to this, I will remove all of the weapons of war from the land, all of the swords and all of the bows so that you can live unafraid in peace and safety. I will make you my bride forever,

showing you righteousness and justice, unfailing love and compassion. I will be faithful to you and I will make you mine and you will finally know me as Lord. See, God might not shut the mouth of the lions that you're facing right now in this moment, but there's going to come a day in the mouth of every line will be shut when there'll be no more suffering, no more pain, no more war, when there will be peace and prosperity on the land, when God will wipe away every tear from our eyes and there will be no more mourning. There will only be joy. And listen to this, we will finally know God, God's Lord. That usual faithfulness will pay off because we'll see him face to face. Because of what Jesus has done on our behalf will be brought into this kingdom with no more mourning, no more pain.

So I'm here to encourage you this morning. Like if you're facing some serious difficulty in your life right now and you're waiting for God to show up and he hasn't, keep praying, keep seeking, keep asking other believers to pray. And let's, let's, let's seek and hope and pray that God shows up and does the miraculous. But even if he doesn't, he's going to fulfill his eternal promises. There's going to come a day when this thing that is the most important, most heartbreaking, most difficult thing in your life won't matter anymore because God will have come back and made everything right. Darius says to the people of every race and nation and language throughout the world, peace and prosperity to you. I decree that everyone throughout my kingdom should tremble with fear before the God of Daniel, for he is the living God and he will endure forever. His kingdom will never

be destroyed and this rule will never end. He rescues and saves his people. He performs miraculous signs and wonders in heaven and on earth. He rescued Daniel from the power of lions. So Daniel prospered during the reign of Darius, during the reign of Cyrus, the Persian. So how does Darius respond to God's miracle in Daniel's life? He says God, Daniel's God is the one true and living God. See, Darius's faith was a momentary response to a miracle. And that's awesome. We celebrate that. We, we think that that's amazing. But I would say this, that faithfulness that lasts is built on daily decisions to build your life on a relationship with the one true God. See, Darius had this huge moment with God, this momentary decision where he said, this God is the one true God. And then we don't know what happens from there.

And I know there are people in this room that have had those moments, those one-time moments where you're like, God is real. Jesus is who he said he is. I'm going to follow him. And then maybe you did that for a while. Maybe some circumstances in your life came or some doubts or some questions or some fears came. And you ended up walking away from that because your faith wasn't built on daily relationship with God, but your faith was built on one momentary response and in, in the moment to an emotion. If that's you, I'm here to call you back. I'm here to call you back to faith in God. It's like Daniel's faith was built on daily relationship to God. See, Matthew chapter seven in this way says this, that anyone who listens to my teachings and follows it is wise, like a person who builds his house on solid

rock. Though the rain come in torrents, unusual circumstances, and the floodwaters rise and the winds beat against that house, it won't collapse. Why? Because it's built on usual faithfulness. It's built on a bedrock. It's built on trusting Jesus says and what he does every single day. But anyone who hears my teachings and doesn't obey it is foolish. It's like a person who builds his house on the sand. And when the unusual times come, when the rains come, the floods come, and the winds beat against the house, it will collapse with a mighty collapse.

So what's our response to Jesus this morning? Have we made decisions in the past that were mostly built around emotion, excitement, what we saw God doing in the moment? And have we allowed our relationship with God to drift away? Are we building our life on less than eternal things? Are we like Daniel? Do we build our life on usual faithfulness to God so that when unusual times come, we're ready, we're prepared to follow Jesus even in the midst of persecution, even in the midst of difficulty? Let's be a church. Let's be a church. Let's be a people who build our life on the solid rock day in and day out. We make the choice to build our identity, our relationship with God in usual times so that when unusual times come, we can be faithful. And who knows what God might do? Who knows what miracles

he might show up and do? Who knows how many people might come to Jesus because they see us faithful in unusual times. They see us standing firm when they know they wouldn't be able to stand firm because they don't have the foundation that is Jesus. Let's build our life on Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we're so thankful for stories like Daniel in the lion's den where we see you show up and do the miraculous. We see you honor day in and day out faithfulness of Daniel. But the Bible is filled with stories of people who were faithful day in and day out and didn't see you show up in the miraculous. So that's, that's not something that we're promised. God, we're promised eternal joy, eternal pleasure, eternal rest from pain and suffering. And so in the midst of our temporary pain

and suffering, let's, let's not get angry when you don't show up, but let's just be faithful to build our our life on the rock. Let's be a church of people who build our life daily on faithfulness to God so that when the winds come, when the rain pours, beat on the house. May our house stand firm on the foundation of foundation that is Jesus. In his name I pray. Amen.
