Why NOT Us?
2021-11-22
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ek_GSldTyIo

Well, good morning, Canvas. It's a pleasure to be with you today. We're kind of like cousin churches, I guess. As Rand was saying, the same organization that kind of helped you guys start a few years ago, I did a church planting residency with them, and they helped me get started. I've known Rand for a number of years, love him, love what you guys are doing here, and it's an honor to finally be able to share with you today. Ryan mentioned something about listening carefully because I'm tired. It's true. More importantly than that is because, as you may have noticed, I'm Latino, and I have an accent, and sometimes I get really excited, and you have to, what did he say? So, I'm going to try not to do that and kind of like do my best to like enunciate everything and keep everything calm, but if you kind of like lean in a little bit and just, you know, keep track, we'll be fine, okay?

Jesus loves you. At the end of the day, Jesus loves you. You don't get anything else I say. I said that, and we're good to go, all right? Okay, let's get started. A couple weeks ago, when Ryan and I were talking on the phone, he said, "Listen, we're kind of like in this transition between the last years that we're doing and something that we're starting." the week a couple weeks after you're there so preach on anything you want and you know like we'll we'll we'll put it out and it is funny that kind of like uh he said that you guys in the last couple weeks kind of like fell into the experience into this rhythm about peaks and valleys and actually kind of like fixing perfectly what we're talking about because today we're going to talk

we're talking about a valley a valley of dry bones so i think that's kind of like interesting how how God uh weaves that in um with that said um last uh 18 months or 20 months good Lord okay not not less less 20 months i mean what they've been right and i'll be honest i'm just tired of talking about the pandemic i'm tired of talking about kobe i'm talking to bring it up every single sunday so today i'm not going to talk about that instead what i'm going to do is i want to talk to you about the worst pandemic the world has ever seen all right and it's believe it or not it's not not kobe that the worst pandemic the world has ever seen by uh any real measure that we can have is something known

as the black death i don't know if any of you took you know western state in in high school or college and the black death is a pandemic that that happens primarily in europe and africa between 1346 and 1353 and today is considered the the deadliest pandemic that we've ever known because it was many many years ago we don't keep like exact records but every estimate goes between 75 million people dead to 200 million people it killed half of europe it was absolutely devastating and brutal and the thing is that it doesn't necessarily happen in isolation that the black death comes kind of like on the tail end of a period of time that we call the crisis of the late middle ages and we call it that because kind of like if you're familiar with with kind of like that time period the the hundred years kind of like leading

to the black death europe wasn't doing too well okay especially a famine that kills about 10 percent of the european population and then you go into the hundred year war so like france and england are at war over and over again and then kind of like just driving the rest of europe into war then you have this schism that happens in the catholic church that you have a pope in in in italy in the vatican and then you have this anti-pope in avignon in france this thing's a mess right and to culminate this comes this pandemic that that kills you know millions and millions and millions of people and uh you know you kind of like look at every single thing that's happening in european history at the time and your first instinct at least my first instinct would say well europe is going to have a rough

time after this right like if i just kind of like just drop you uh in there at a time i tell you everything that's happening your first instinct would be to think whatever comes next is not necessarily going to be good the irony of that is that what comes after the black dance and after the the crisis of the late middle ages is a period of time that that we know as the renaissance the renaissance starts in in forests in italy and it's basically this rediscovery of greek philosophy and art and literature that literally reinvigorates culture in europe it brings up it creates you know cultural artistic development eventually technological development and and you know most historians will tell you the renaissance is kind of like the the bridge period of time between uh the middle ages

and modernity in a way that the renaissance is what kind of like keeps social civilization alive and and brings us to to this to this time and and the reason why i'm telling you this today is because i am talking about a little bit if you haven't noticed right so the last you know two years things haven't been going that well i'm going to check check the news right and and it's not only about the pandemic right like think about it we've had so this public health crisis but we've had really crisis you know economic crisis we've had crisis in in race relations in in our country in the rest of the world we've had uh a crisis in kind of like political discourse and polarization in the country like there's a number of things that we can list and you know like look at the last two years probably a little bit uh back

before that and say you know what things don't don't seem to be looking so good and the natural tendency is to assume that because of that whatever comes next isn't going to be so good as well right like these terrible things happen and then we're just going to be seeing for the next however many months or even years just like the continued fallout of that more businesses closing more people losing their jobs more and more and more but in church world in particular this you know is also the case i don't really know like what your experiences has been but you're like on average in in the country most churches right now are seeing about like 50 percent attendance at what they were seeing before covid and you know like when when you are like the part of the group that keeps showing up

the church you know probably feels like i don't know like charlie brown when like lucy takes the ball like we're gonna go right what happened here right and there's this this fear sometimes that that you know a pastor feel it i feel it i'm sure you know brian feels ryan feels it but you feel it as well you're like what what's happening to us and maybe it's not only your congregation but just christianity in general right like is is this kind of like it like are we seeing like our better times and everything is going to to continue just getting worse and worse and telling you all this because i want to ask the question this morning and explore it with you guys in this passage a little bit why is that not the only

outcome that can come out of this if in the worst probably one of the worst times in history that we've seen things should have continued to get to get bad but they don't there's this there's this renaissance this this rebirth of things is there a way that maybe that could be true of us today it could be through maybe your life but that could be true of the life of the church with all that said i would invite you to turn to the book of Ezekiel chapter 37 i'm going to start reading on verse 1 if you can follow along on the screen behind me or you can you know follow your phone we read uh the the Scriptures in the name of the father and the son and the Holy Spirit if he goes 37 verse 1 the hand of the Lord

was on me and he brought me out by the spirit of the Lord and set me in the middle of a valley it was full of bones he led me back and forth among them and i saw a great many bones on the floor of the valley bones that were very dry he asked me Son of Man can these bones live and i said sovereign Lord you alone now then he said to me prophesy to these bones and say to them dry bones hear the word of the Lord this is what the sovereign Lord says to these bones i will make breath enter you and you will come to life i will attach tendons to you and make flesh come upon you and cover you with skin i will put breath in you and you will come to life then you will know that i am the Lord so i prophesied as i was

commanded and as i was prophesying there was a noise a rattling sound and the bones came together bone to bone i looked and tendons and flesh appeared on them and skin covered them but there was no breath in them then he said to me prophesy to the breath prophesy Son of Man and say to it this is what the sovereign Lord says come breath from the four wings and breathe into this lane that they may live so i prophesied as he commanded me and breath entered them they came to life and stood up on their feet a vast army then he said to me Son of Man these bones are the people of Israel they say our bones are dried up and our hope is gone we are cut off therefore prophesy and say to them this is what the sovereign Lord says my

people i am going to open your grace a grace and bring you up from them i will bring you back to the land of Israel then you my people will know that i am the Lord when i open your grace and bring you up from them i will put my spirit in you and you will live and i will settle you in your own land then you will know that i the Lord have spoken and i have done it declared the Lord this is the word of the Lord you guys in this year is called peaks and valleys right and the two most famous passages in the Bible that talk about valleys are uh you know something even though i walk through the valley of the shadow of death asher spirit no evil if you're with me the second most famous passage that the

Bible has about valley is believe it or not the passage that we just read one of the most actually famous prophecies in the Old Testament particularly because it's so visual right like it's like this visceral thing of like having this image of these bones and then like i mean it kind of sounds like a horror movie right because like the bones are there and then like like the muscles start growing and like the skin starts reconfiguring it's like the reverse of like indiana jones and the last crusade when the guy drinks a cup and like he pulls up it's like they die in reverse like that's what's happening that's the mission that that that Ezekiel is having this is the word of the Lord right it's great now to give a little bit of like context of of what's going on here Ezekiel is is a prophet that

the rights uh at an interesting period in the life of Israel if you know a little bit of of the history of Israel you know Israel is a nation they God takes them out of Egypt they eventually settle in the promised land and and they kind of like settle down and they establish this dynasty of kings and every single king is like worse than than the one before and at some point guys guys start sending these prophets saying you have to repent you have to turn your ways because if you don't i'm going to like withdraw my hand of protection for you because clearly you don't want anything to do with me and then these enemy armies are going to come and i'm going to destroy you and then what's happening here is that the Babylonian emperor at the time is like the biggest empire in the world has come to

to Jerusalem and they've taken captives that look like the elites of the series so they've taken the king captive the king's sons captive and a lot of like the religious leaders of the time Ezekiel was a priest kind of like by birthright by lineage and and he was kind of like being ready to be one of the priests that's serving the temple they would take turns like they do like you know one year of their life because there were so many of them and in the year where Ezekiel is supposed to be serving in the temple as a priest instead he finds himself in exile in Babylon and here is where the world of God comes to Ezekiel and he starts prophesying now you read the book of Ezekiel the first two thirds of the book are prophecies of judgment because what's happened here is that you know

the Babylonian empire has taken kind of like the elites of the sea the majority of the people are still living in Jerusalem and the fact that the Babylonian empire came and took the king hasn't kind of like woken them up until like they're the evil of their ways and they haven't repented and that's kind of like sending one final like would you please turn would you please repent of course they don't do it right so it's all like the first two thirds of the book are these prophecies of judgment and honestly like destruction and gloomy like very like dark passes like you know if you ever want to like you know get depressed like put us on the press mode and read like Ezekiel like the first two halves of the book because it'll really kind of like get you like in that dark mood right and then something

interesting happens like the last third of the book there's this kind of like turn that Ezekiel makes in in the prophecies that that he's honestly receiving from God so he goes from these prophecies like doom and gloom and then he starts prophesying something else he's prophesying that at some point in the future even though the judgment from God is going to come that some point in the future there is going to be something other than judgment that there's going to be restoration there is hope that the people of Israel wouldn't be exiles forever that one day they were able to come back home the most famous of those prophecies and as i said the most visually memorable is the prophecy that we just write and this prophecy is kind of like centers around like this vision of the bones more importantly

it centers around this question that God asks Ezekiel what's that question can these bones live you know the people of Israel at this point kind of like if you think about it he's prophesying from the past about something that's going to happen but if you think about it it's probably actually not meant to be read at the time he's writing it's probably meant to be read when the people of us who are in exile when everything has fallen apart when the doctor has called you back with the results and say hey it's not good news when the person that you thought was going to be with you forever says you're not working for me anymore when the company that you have given like 25 years of your life and your effort and sacrifice so much when they say hey we use the economy you just can't

see where this process is meant to be read. The people of Israel are looking around, and all they see is death and destruction and suffering. The best future that they can imagine is no future. They think that their way of life is going to end. They think that the kind of like, the life that God had promised them was going to go away. And it's at this moment that God enters the story and asks them this He's doing by asking them this question. He's daring them to imagine for a second if there could be a different type of future. What God is inviting them into is, if you think about it for a second, I mean, I don't know how much, by all of you know, but like, if you see like the bones, the person is dead.

We're aware of that, right? It's not like things are like, you know, like in the hospital, and like, you know, we get the medication time, like things can change. If we're seeing the bones, like, there's long gone any chance of recovery. And it's funny that it's in that moment. It's not in the moment of kind of like, things might fall apart. It's in the moment after things are falling apart. It's in the moment when you don't think that anything good can come out of anything, that there's nothing there. There's bones. God is asking them, it's not only, can you imagine if things could get a little better, but he's asking, can you imagine if you can, if you can be born again? It's a promise, it's a promise about rebirth. By the way, the word renaissance, that's what it really means, is God is rebirth, right? Now, Ezekiel is not alone in this, by the way, because Ezekiel is one of the

kind of many prophets, like, there's this lineage of, like, all of the prophets that kind of, like, before the exile and post-exile, most of them, it's the same pattern. They will write, and they will say, "Things are going to get bad, you have disobeyed God, you've walked away from God, God's going to, kind of, like, withdraw his hand, and this, you know, suffering and invasion, whatever is going to come." But then he kind of, like, also makes, makes this interesting, you know, fascinating thing that they all start promising, but it's not going to be like that forever. when you think it's going to let no hope that things can change. Can these bones live? Now, we are not the nation of Israel in excelling Babylon, right? But if you think about it, we kind of find ourselves in a little bit of a similar situation. Maybe we're not at the point of, like, dead bones, except that I know plenty of friends of mine whose churches are cool

or, you know, living in the ministry because you can't handle it, whether it's the financial pressures or, you know, the tensions within churches or whatever. Like, you know, I know many people that have lost their jobs. Like, we've seen a version of this, of people that have, like, lost everything, and they're on the other side of that. Religion has faced a lot of challenges, right? From, kind of, like, the secularization of the world and culture in the West to, honestly, also how, like, the hypocrisy of certain leaders has been exposed, people that we thought were living a life this way and turned out they're living a life a different way, right? Then you also have, kind of, like, the political tensions and how, like, that has, like, there's a number of reasons why you would look at Christianity in the West and Christianity particularly in America today and say, man, like, that's not going to end.

Well, you know, as a pastor, I feel discouraged sometimes for, not only for, sometimes, how slow people, some people have been to return to church, but there's people that I just, I don't know where they're at. Like, I really, I reach out and send emails and phone calls. I know I'm sticking up, and everything in a while, like, they'll like a video that we post on Facebook, and I'm like, are you? You know what I'm saying? Like, it's just a reality of where things are at right now, and, you know, I keep thinking of one verse in these passages that we read. Luke chapter 37, verse 11. You know, this is God talking to a secret, and he says this, "Then he said to me, Son of Man, these bones," he says, "are the people of Israel." And they say, "Our bones are dried up, and our hope is gone, and we're caught up." And I wonder how many of us, many churches, many pastors, how many

people? How many of us feel like that? Like, we gave every ounce of energy that we had to survive the last few years, and we have nothing left in the tank to, like, embodying anything bad. And it's so hard. And the fascinating thing is what God says after that. God says, "I am going to open your graves and bring you out from them. I will bring you back to the land of Israel. Then you, my people, will know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and bring you out from them. I will put my spirit in you, and you will live, and I will settle you in your own land. Then you will know that I, the Lord, have spoken and I have done it because the Lord, do you see that?" It would seem that when Ezekiel is saying, what God is telling Ezekiel is that, that a lot of times it's not like, I don't know if you've ever heard the cliche of like, you know, you know, God's never late, you know, he's just up at the right time. And it's very convenient to God, right? Sometimes it's not convenient for my bank account when God shows up, right? Or it's not convenient for a dating life when God shows up. It's not convenient for a career when God shows up.

What you're saying about this passage is that God's late here. God's not showing up when things are about to collapse, or we're like in the last minute, or before we get the eviction noise, or because, before the relationship, God shows up late. God shows up after everything is falling apart, which might mean then, that even when we're looking at the wreckage that was once our lives, and the ruins of what was once the last that we dreamed that we would have, the thing that we wanted to be, that maybe even then, it's still not too late. It might seem, because, by the way, this God has kind of like a history of performing resurrections, that maybe some of the best works that God does is when things seem to be over and there. And what I want to show you is that, am I, believe it or not, like, I'm actually not like this kind of like, I grew up in, like, the charismatic movement, so I saw a lot of, like, weird stuff in it, so I'm actually very reticent to be like, you know, like, just believe it and can't, like, I'm actually not like that. But what I want to show you is, like, this is God's character. This is throughout history how God has behaved. This is kind of like how God operates.

And when I say that, then, when I look at a story like this, this is not a story about the U.S., this is not a story about Canva's church, it's not a story about Canva's church, it's a story about it's really next. But I see this story, and I see, okay, if God did that then, and if it would seem that this is God's character, is there any reason why I shouldn't, why we shouldn't ask and hope and believe that, as we sang so beautifully this morning, thank you for that, that He can do it again. Because this is the pattern of God, right? Think about the people of Israel, they leave the land of Cana because there's a famine, they go to Egypt, and they are, you know, they end up becoming slaves, and for 400 years it seems that they're slaves, that nothing good is going to come out of that, and in that

situation, in that context, God kind of, like, drags them out of slavery and liberates them. You see, with the people of Israel going into exile, embodying all hope he's lost, and yet God brings them back from exile to their land. You see, later on after that, right, there's this period of, like, 400 years of silence between the Old Testament and the New Testament, and it would seem that God kind of has shut off any sort of communication, and that He's forgotten the people of Israel, and the they find themselves, you know, under Roman occupation, with the boot of the Roman Empire, against their necks, and yet there, a baby is born, and a child is given, and hope is given. And then we see that child be persecuted, be put on a sham trial, be executed as a common thief, and again we think, wow, that everything is lost, that all hope is gone.

And from there, God rises up His Son and resurrects Him. Do you see that this is how God works in the world? And kind of like what that means in your sense is that one of the things that Christians, like in the aftermath of the resurrection of Jesus' belief, is that if God has resurrected Christ, then really, like, everything is possible now. Like, all sorts of things that can happen. There's this passage in the book of Romans, the Apostle Paul, after, he's writing this letter, and he says this. He says, "What then shall we say in response to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare His own Son, but gave Him out for us all, says, "How would He not also, along with Him, graciously give us all things?" What Paul is saying is, the hardest thing that God could have accomplished was raising His Son from the dead.

He accomplished that. So you look at our lives and you think that He can resurrect your stories, that He can resurrect your life, that He can resurrect your faith, that He can resurrect your church. You see what I'm trying to say? Like this is kind of like the point of how God moves up. Now what's interesting though is this. In the passage of Ezekiel that we read earlier. Who's the hype man? Not Ezekiel. Ezekiel has no faith in asking him to believe this. He has a vision, and by the way, this vision is also interesting, right? Imagine you're Ezekiel for a second, right? And you're like minding your own business. I don't know what you're doing in Babylon. Like let's say you're sweeping the streets, right? And then all of a sudden you have this vision and you find yourself in a valley and there's all these dry bones. And there's a guy, I don't know why,

he's seeing, we don't believe that God has like, you know, a bite, I don't know if he's seeing light or a voice or something, but there's something. He knows that God is before him, and God is asking him a question. And even then, after all these supernatural stuff has happened, he doesn't know what can happen. So this is Ezekiel's answer to that. Ezekiel 37:3 says, "He asked me, guys, Son of Man says, 'Can these bones live?' And then he says, 'I said, sovereign Lord, you alone know.'" And yet, there's a couple things. The one thing that sticks out to me is that Ezekiel is not sure. And I'm telling you that because, you know, all the things I'm sharing this morning, I don't know your story, but if you're a human in 2021, you've probably had a rough time.

And you're hearing, and say, "Hey, oh, that sounds great." I'm not sure I have the faith to believe that God can restore this faith. If you only like to see how much from this it is. And it's fascinating. Ezekiel said, "No, and that doesn't stop God." But not only that doesn't stop God, there's an idea involved in here, and he says, "Sovereign Lord." He's applying to the sovereign people. You don't have the power to make this happen, but you do. And for me, I think that's a source of hope, because, you know, he's talking specifically about the church. Culture doesn't decide what happens to the church. The government doesn't decide what happens to the church. Political parties don't decide what happens to the church. By the way, we don't decide what happens to the church. The sovereign Lord alone knows. And again, I want to ask you a question, if that is the case, if this is the

God of renewal and rebirth and resurrection and new life that we worship, why in the world wouldn't we hope and pray and hope for renewal, for a renaissance? Why is decline isn't the only option? Why is our best days are not behind us, but ahead of us? What do we do then? If we find ourselves, what do we do? The fascinating thing about the passing of Ezekiel is that there's really no structure for that. Ezekiel is a very passive agent. He's just hanging out. But I would argue that the implied thing that you see there is what? That God is the one who's doing the work, right? And if that is the case, well, perhaps the place that we start is where? In God's presence. We spread everything to salvage his relationship, and it's not working. And we spread everything to revive his business, and it's not working. And we spread everything to revive his church, and it's not working. And the only thing left, which maybe should have been the first thing, is the presence of God.

There's a passage of another minor prophet in the Old Testament named Habakkuk. I love saying Habakkuk. It sounds like I'm cussing. Habakkuk, right? I'm not cussing. It's the name, okay? Habakkuk chapter 3, saying on verse 3, this is Habakkuk praying. This is what Habakkuk says. It says, "Lord, I have heard of your fame. I stand in all of your deeds, Lord." And then he says, "Repeat them in our day. In our time, make them known." Habakkuk goes to the presence of God, and what did he say? Do it again. Why is that the place where we start? We come in our time of suffering before God, and we look at everything that God's done in the past and say, "Hey, you did that thing in our time. Can you do it again today?" Listen, there are times that God calls us to do things, and there are things that only God can do. And in the same way God calls us to do things,

well, the next step is action, right? A step of obedience. But in the things that only God can do, the right step is not action, but it's also not inaction. It's prayer. Prayer, seeking the presence of God, it's not an act of passivity. It's not an act of inaction. I remember Manos from Mosaic in LA says, "Prayer is spiritual activism." Going before the presence of God and asking God to move. A few years ago, there was this pastor I respect a lot in New York called John Tyson. He has a lot of experience doing urban ministry. Long story short, he's doing this podcast, telling the early stories of his church. One of the episodes is telling how when he moved to New York, he would just walk the streets of New York praying. I end up having a phone conversation

with one of his assistants for something else, and he just says, "Hey, by the way, we're doing a Q&A episode of the podcast. Do you have any questions?" And I'm like, "I think I'm very hard. I'm going to get the right questions." So I said, "Hey, listen, I would love to know just like the practical things," because I was kind of like all things the person is planting our church. "I would love to know the practical things that he did to get the church started." And then I said, "Because the way he talked in the last podcast, it sounds like he just walks around and prays all day." Right? File it away. A couple weeks later, the episode with the Q&A comes out, and you know, he asked the question that I asked the assistant.

I'm so grateful that he didn't mention my name. He said, "We got a question, and this is a question." So he asked a question, and Jim Tyson, I'll never forget this. He says, "Listen, I would love to know the spirit in which that question was asked," he says. Because if what he's asking is, "Hey, what are the practical things that you did? I would love to kind of like share that with him." He says, "But if what he's asking is, okay, okay, that's cute that you pray, but when you get to the real word," then he says, "Prayer is the word." He's like, "Can you imagine what would happen if every pastor in America looked themselves in a room for a year and prayed?" And what God would do after? That historically, the one thing that we've seen happen

over and over again is when Christians, when the people of God, when the churches had like its back against the wall, and they decided to seek God in prayer, that it's in those moments when God has moved the most. There's a story about this revival in these islands in Scotland called the Hebrides. You've probably never heard of them. I think I have a picture of those islands. Little islands in Scotland. In Christian lore, they're very famous. And there's no one that's very famous because one of the biggest kind of Christian revival are there. This particular island called Louis and a particular village called Bravas, basically, the church in there was dying. It was kind of like almost completely empty. They were not getting any young people coming to church. And these two old ladies, 84 and 82 years old,

their sisters, one of them is blind, they decided they're not going to just let that happen. So they start getting together to pray three nights a week from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. And in the middle of that prayer time, they get a word from God that God was going to do something. They were going to pour some water in the church of the land. And actually, God gives one of them this vision that there was an evangelist called Duncan Campbell that God was going to send to start the work. So they invite him. They send him a letter. They say, "We had this vision from God." I said, "You're going to come. Would you come?" He said, "Actually, I can because I have this sort of thing to do, right?" So he's in the client's invitation. Turns out that the event that he declined this for, that he was scheduled for, that gets canceled.

So he's like, "I don't have anything to do. I might as well go show up." He gets an abortions up. And his plan was to stay there for like two weeks, right? He stays there for two years. And in those two years, 90% of that island comes to Christ. And the stories are like people were like walking down the street, and they just felt like they had to go to church. There's a story that there was kind of like, like a hall of events across the street from the church. And there was like a big party going on at the same time that the revival was going on. And the power goes out at the salon of the party, so nobody has anything to do. So they all come across the street, and you'll get saved, right? Like people in jail.

It was an insane story that's documented of a work that God did. Why? Because two women, in what you would call kind of like the nadir of their life, where they should just be, you know, drinking margaritas on an island or something, they decide that they're not going to just sit there and let the best of the church be behind them, and they're going to pray and say, "Can these bones live?" The only thing I want to tell you is that I believe that it could happen again. I'm not a big baseball fan at all, but I was watching this 30 for 30 seconds, a sports documentary on ESPN, and it was called "Four Days in October." And a documentary is actually about the story of how the Red Sox broke the course of the Bambina, right? Like they hadn't won a World Series since 1918, and then in the 2004 ALCS,

they find themselves in a series against, you know, representation of evil on earth, the New York Yankees. And they're in this series, and they're down 0-3. And everybody's thinking, well, the same thing that's happened every year is going to happen again. Like, we're going to just lose, right? And then, they win game four. And still, when you're like 3-1 down in the series, you're still going to lose the series, right? You only have to win one game. And then the trial happens, and they win game five. And by the time they get to win to game six, it's like the whole city, all of a sudden, saying, "We could actually win this thing." And the slogan starts kind of like taking hold of the city. If you're anything in this sport, you probably heard it, right? Like, "Why not ask?" And there will be billboards of that. There will be, like, buses with that on the street. People started printing t-shirts.

One of the players wears a t-shirt that says, "Why not ask?" And after they win game six, and he takes it off, and he shows that he's carrying it. And they go into game seven, saying, "I mean, we're here. Why not ask?" Why not ask? The subtitle of the documentary is, "There was no answer to why not ask?" But what I'm positive to you this morning is to invite you to ask yourself the question that Ezekiel, that God asked Ezekiel, "Can these bones live?" Then I want to invite you to answer that question with a question that the people of Boston asked themselves in 2004. Why not ask? Why not? If God has performed all of the miracles that He has performed throughout history, if God has done all of the incredible things that He has done throughout history, if God has, you know, brought nations out of exile, if God has brought nations out

of slavery, if God has brought the dead back to life, why not ask? Let's pray to God. That's your question. Why not ask? We have heard of your deeds. In our time, make them nervous. Would you do it again, Lord? In the name of your son, amen. We're going to go off script a little bit because that was so good. Oh man, Joe, I appreciate that so much. I heard from the Lord this morning. I believe that we all have. And so, just want to, before we take communion stands and just sing that bridge a couple of times and think about the situations that you find yourself in today. And think about God's faithfulness in the past to bring muscles and tendons onto dry bones, to lead the nation of Israel out of exile time and time again, and ultimately to fulfill his greatest resurrection promise yet, and that is to raise

Jesus from the dead. Think about what he's done in the past, and think about your current situation, and let's respond by just saying, God, we've seen you move, and we believe you're going to continue to move. Let's see that again today in our lives, in our city, in our church. church. Jesus said, "Follow me." Let's pray. Jesus said, "Follow me." Let's pray. Jesus said, "Follow me." Let's pray.

Jesus said, "We are holding tight to the only thing that we have to hold tight to in the midst of the difficulty and brokenness that is 2021, and that is that you have a hope for the future." I love how God communicates to us in pictures. The Valley of Dry Bones is a picture that gives us hope for the future. In the same way that communion is a picture that gives us hope for the future. It's a picture of what God did in the past and a promise of what He's going to do in the future. We talk about this all the time here at Canvas when we take communion. We say that communion is not just about Christ's body that has broken for us in the past. It is about that, but it's also about a cup that He's going to raise in the future.

So this picture that we take this morning as believers, those of us that are followers of Jesus, we take it in remembrance of what He's done in the past, believing that He is going to do again what He said He would do in the future. So let's take this this morning's celebration and hope. Let's take the body of Christ that was broken for us. And let's drink the juice that represents the blood of Christ shed for us. Church, let's be a church that believes that prayer is not inactivity, but it's the very thing that brings about what God wants to do in our city. In this time, why not us? Let's pray. Father, we love you, and we are so thankful for what you shared with us this morning through your Holy Spirit, through Pastor Joel.

We pray that you would help us to leave this place with our heads held high, believing that you're going to be faithful to do again what you've done in the past, which is bring dry bones to life. Bring hope to hopeless situations. We believe it. And God, I know even in all of the things that you're doing this morning, I know there are people in this room that still are probably thinking, yeah, that's nice for the Israelites. That's nice for Pastor Ryan. That's nice for the other people in the room, but not me. God, I pray that you would give hope to the people, would give faith to the people in this room that still don't have it. God, we've all been in situations where we didn't have the faith to believe, and you moved in the midst of that. So God, give us faith to believe.

I love how the Father comes to Jesus and Mark. He's trying to heal his son, and it's not happening. Jesus says, "We need to believe." He says, "I do believe, but help my unbelief." God, help our unbelief. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thanks, church. We love you. Have a great week. Give Joel a high-five on the way out. Let's see him.
