Christian Contradictions
2022-03-07
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3by92egFdVI

Well, good morning, church. Man, am I thankful for the Holy Spirit. Donovan, I know we didn't plan this, but that second Song is really a summary of everything that God, I think, has been teaching me this week, that the kingdom of God is a table that we've all been invited to. And just to give you a peek behind the curtain, I wrestled so much with this message this week. It was just a struggle for me to figure out exactly what God wanted us to hear about what James was trying to get across to his readers and how it would have an impact in our lives. And ultimately, I kind of just settled on that, that we've all been invited to this table, that there's no discrimination in the kingdom of God. And so, man, even if my message falls flat this morning, I believe the Holy Spirit is going

to work through this entire service to remind us of that truth, that the kingdom of God is a table available for all of us. That if we would just receive by faith the grace that God has extended to us, we've been offered a seat at the table of a kingdom that is far greater than any kingdom that we might experience prior to the coming back of Jesus, who is the one true king. And what a great reminder in the midst of kingdoms arguing and kingdoms fighting and kingdoms warring against one another, that there will come a day when King Jesus will return and we'll turn our weapons into instruments of farming, that there will be no more war, that there will be no more famine, that there will be no more tears. That is the kingdom that we've been invited to live into now.

And that's my hope and my prayer for us at Canvas. And we say this all the time, that we want to see the kingdom of God manifested in the city of Winchester as it is in heaven. That's the invitation that we've brought into, we've been brought into. And so, honestly, that's kind of where James is going throughout the book. Let's just quickly review and then I'll pray and we'll hop into our text this morning. James is really concerned with the quality of the believer's relationship with God. He's not, he doesn't want us to settle for moral behavior. He wants us to embrace a genuine relationship with God where we're being transformed from the inside out and he's asking these, these believers that he's writing to, to consider their own hearts because he doesn't want them to be deceived.

He believes, James believes that there's a group of people that, that gather together in the church services with, with other believers and they're being deceived thinking that they have a genuine relationship with God when actually all they've really done is adjusted a few behaviors, checked a few external boxes. And James is saying, don't be deceived. That's not true faith. That's not true religion. That's not what this thing is all about. And he's not doing that to guilt them or shame them. He's doing that to help them see they've been invited into something so much better that we talked about last week, that moral behavior has got nothing on spiritual flourishing. And the reason he wants us to consider the quality of our relationship with God is what chapter one is all about. He says, trials and temptations are going to come into your life.

And if all you've done is adjusted your external behavior a little bit, if all you've done is checked a couple more old boxes, when the wind comes, when the rains come, when the flood comes, when life hits hard, when Satan tempts you to sin, you're going to give in. But if you build your house on a rock, if you have a genuine relationship with God from the inside out, not perfect, not perfect, but faithful, genuine, inside out relationship with God, that is the type of relationship that can transform the lives of people around you, that can manifest the kingdom of God on earth as it is in heaven. A genuine relationship with God transformed from the inside out, moral living is never going to build the kingdom of God. Genuine, inside out transformation is what builds the kingdom of God.

So that's where James has been. That kind of catches you up. If you haven't been around, that's where we've been headed, and that's kind of the direction we're going to continue this morning. Let me pray, and then we'll hop into our text. Father, we thank you for your Holy Spirit, and we confess this morning that we need you, Holy Spirit, to be present and active in this room. I love how Paul says in 1 Corinthians that he didn't come with good speech, with powerful speech, with a good oration. He came in fear and trembling and stuttering, and you used that for your glory. God, we don't need a good speech this morning. We need your word to penetrate our hearts, to transform us from the inside out. And so do a work this morning, Holy Spirit, in all of our lives.

I believe that you're going to do it. And God, just make me decrease and make you increase this morning for your glory. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you have your Bibles, paperback, hardback, digital, whatever it might be, I'd love to have you join me in James. We're actually, like I promised, we're going to make some progress this morning. We're going to cover 15 verses. I know, we were like, we were not doing very much there for a while. We're going to start at the end of James chapter 1, verse 26 and 27, and get all the way through verse 13 of chapter 2. As you're finding that in your Bibles, if you're new to the Scriptures, go to Revelation at the very end and take a left, a couple of pages, you'll find James.

Romans, take a right, you'll find James somewhere in there. As you're turning, I'd love for you to consider if you've ever been in a situation where you were confronted with a contradiction in your life. Where you say something is true about your life, but then someone outside of you or maybe a situation arose in your life where you were confronted with a contradiction. An example I can give, I was watching this show called Blackish the other day, and it was an episode about Election Day, and the grandmother was super excited about Election Day. She was getting her Election Day outfit ready, and the granddaughter was like talking to her about Election Day, who are you going to vote for, why are you so excited? And she was like, well, of course I'm going to vote for whoever the Democrat is.

And the granddaughter who's, you know, learning about politics in school was like, well, do you know who is running as the Democrat? And Grandma was like, no, but I'm going to vote for whoever the Democrat is. And the granddaughter was like, well, shouldn't you consider, like, the policies that the candidate is standing for and see if you agree with those policies? And the grandma was like, well, I guess I can do that, but I know that I'm going to, you know, side with whoever the Democrat is. And so the granddaughter got on her tablet. She got out one of those online surveys, and she asked her grandma a couple of questions. She said, I'm going to ask you these questions, and this will let you know who the candidate is that you're voting for. She says, Grandma, what do you believe about climate change?

And grandma looked at her and said, climate change doesn't exist. Okay, well, check one, that's a problem, right? And she goes, Grandma, what do you think about building a border wall between Mexico and the United States of America? And grandma said, there isn't already a wall between Mexico and the United States of America? No wonder they keep coming in and stealing our jobs. And this is what grandma said. And then the last question was, Grandma, what do you believe, how do you believe about increasing police presence in majority Muslim neighborhoods? And she said, of course we should do that. And her granddaughter said, well, Grandma, I hate to break this to you, but you should probably vote for Donald Trump, because everything you just said agreed with his policies. It was an opportunity for her to realize that what she believed about herself to be true actually

didn't line up with her behaviors. Have you ever been in a situation like this, where you confront it with a contradiction in your own life? Michelle, Pastor Michelle, gives Corey and I a really hard time about hunting. And then Corey and I look at her lovingly and say, what did you have for dinner last night? Oftentimes it's a processed meat that she got from the grocery store. And I say, I love your heart, but that's a contradiction, right? And since I'm picking on Michelle, I might as well pick on myself. My sister-in-law is an environmental scientist. I love to say that I care about our environment. But if you watch my recycling habits, it's not good. When other people aren't around, when no one's looking, and the trash can is right there, and it's a lot easier to drop the plastic bottle in the trash can, it's a contradiction in my life.

And I'm sure if you're honest, we've all been in situations where we've been confronted with our lives not necessarily lining up with what we say, we believe, is true. In our passage today, James is going to say that a person that claims to be a genuine follower of Jesus, a genuine believer, but if that person discriminates against somebody else, they are at best a walking contradiction, and at worst, they are deceiving themselves. They're not actually a genuine follower of Jesus. He's going to say, how we treat other people is going to let us know whether or not we actually believe what we say we believe. The outline I want to walk through this morning as we go through this passage is I want to cover three contradictions that discrimination reveals in the life of a Christian.

Three contradictions that discrimination reveals in the life of a Christian. That's the direction we're going to go the rest of the morning. In James 1, verse 26, he says, If anyone thinks he is religious, and when you hear that, you should hear a positive thing. We've kind of taken the word religion and made it negative, and it can be. But when James says this, he's thinking positive. If anyone's religious, anyone has a genuine relationship with God and does not control his tongue, but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. It's of no value. It doesn't line up with, the external doesn't line up with what we say is true about the internal. He says, Religion that is pure and undefiled before God is this, to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unstained from the world.

This is a pretty strong warning. He says that if we think we have genuine religion, but our life doesn't reflect that that is true, that religion is worthless. He says, Genuine believers, we should regularly evaluate the way that we are living our lives in light of what we say we believe. Are we a walking contradiction? Do we live in light of what we say is true about ourselves or is it just this thing that we agree with intellectually, but don't let it transform the way that we live? And then he gives two examples at the end of chapter one, and he's going to spend chapter two and chapter three unpacking both of those examples. The first example is what comes out of our mouth. If we say we're genuine believers, but we can't control what comes out of our mouth,

that reveals that something's going on in our hearts. Scripture says that out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. So what James is saying is what comes out of your mouth is actually far more true about what's inside of your heart than what you just tell people is inside of your heart, right? You might say like, no, this is what's true of me. This is what I believe. But if they followed you around for a day and heard the words that came out of your mouth and saw the way that you treated other people, they might say, whoa, your life doesn't line up with what you say to be true about yourself. And then he says how we treat other people reveals what is true, specifically people that don't bring a lot to the table

when it comes to the cultural and social economy. He uses widows and orphans as an example of the least of these in our lives. And he says how you treat the least of these, how you treat people that can't really bring anything back to you, that can't pay you back how you treat those people reveals what's actually true about your heart. And in our passage in chapter 2, he's going to unpack that second example. If you're here and you have a problem with your tongue, don't worry. We're going to get there. Michelle's going to step on your toes in a couple of weeks in chapter 3. But for now, he's going to spend the rest of, well, he's going to spend the first half of chapter 2 unpacking that second example, how we treat people that can't bring anything to the table,

that can't pay us back for our service to them, reveals what is actually true about our hearts. Three contradictions that discrimination reveals in the life of a Christian. The first one is discrimination reveals that we are valuing the wrong desires. Discrimination reveals that we are valuing the wrong desires. James chapter 2, starting in verse 1, he says, My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring in fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in, and if you pay more attention to the one who wears the fine clothing, and you say, you sit here in this good place, while you say to the poor man, you stand over there, or sit down at my feet,

have you not then made distinctions among yourself and become judges with evil thoughts, wrong motivation? So James is going to spend the next 13 verses unpacking discrimination, showing favoritism against one group of people or another. This word, partiality or favoritism, literally means to lift the faith towards, to show value or honor towards. And I intentionally picked the word discrimination rather than partiality or favoritism, because I believe that discrimination is the shadow side of favoritism. Like whenever you look towards a certain group of people, you're turning your face away from another group of people. Whenever you show favoritism towards one group of people, whether you realize it or not, you're discriminating against another group of people. And so I chose this negative form of the word, because if we're being honest, moral, good, Christian people, we're really good at making our sin not sound as bad as it actually is.

Like we'd be like, yeah, I don't discriminate. Maybe I show favoritism. Maybe I value this group of people more than this group of people, but I don't discriminate against that group of people. But if we're being honest, we're actually true about what's happening in our hearts. I think more often than not, we might realize that sometimes we do discriminate against one group of people or another, one type of person or another. I like this definition for discrimination. Discrimination is when you look at a person's outside to determine their worth on the inside. Discrimination is when you look at a person's outside to determine their worth on the inside. And James gives us a real-world example that I think the church in Jerusalem was struggling with. It seems very specific. He says, when a rich person enters your congregation, when you can tell that they have money,

when you can tell that they have value, when you can tell that they might add something to your life and your church, and you treat them differently than the type of person that walks in invisibly, outwardly, and it looks like they don't have much to offer, you're discriminating, you're showing favoritism. And let's just call it what it is. In America, discrimination is one of those sins that we've committed so blatantly by a majority of our nation for so long that I think in order to make ourselves feel better about the progress that we've made, we tend to not really look at that sin at all. We're like, well, discrimination is something we've struggled with in the past, but it doesn't really exist in our lives in the present. And it might not as blatantly look the same as it used to, but it still exists.

I mean, think with me for just a second about your high school lunch table. I think the high school lunch table is a perfect illustration of how sinful hearts tend to gather together in tribes of people that make them feel safe and comfortable. We like to spend time with people that can bring something to the table for us. We like to spend time with people that can add value to our lives. And James is saying the kingdom of God is about showing value to everyone equally because Jesus has died for everyone equally. He's invited us all into this kingdom by his sacrificial love, and that love does not discriminate based on what's on the outside. That love does not discriminate based on what can be brought to the table.

And so what ways might discrimination just show its face in our lives? Race is the example that comes to the forefront of our minds. And again, I think we tend to pretend like that doesn't exist anymore because we feel so much shame about how it existed in the past. But is that something that flips into your life? I think far more often we discriminate based on people that fit into our kind of cultural, socioeconomic status, what makes us feel comfortable. Or honestly, probably the worst one in the church today is our political preferences. I think we could flip James' example on its head where James says if you see someone coming in that has external wealth and somebody that doesn't and you treat them differently, there's discrimination. But I think we could even say for our church, if you see somebody that walks in with a T-shirt that says,

don't tread on me, and then you see somebody that walks in with a T-shirt that has a rainbow flag on it, and you immediately make judgments about what that person is about and you discriminate against who you would rather spend time with, what you would rather invest in. Is it possible that discrimination is creeping into your heart? Is it possible that you're judging the external, you're judging what you can see, and you're choosing to add value to one more than the other? It happens so easily. I think about my own life. There's people that could ask for a meeting, and I would drop everything in my schedule tomorrow, and I would make time for that. And there's other people where I'm like, hmm, let me look at my schedule. I'll get back to you. Three weeks later, four weeks later, they reach out again.

Hmm, you know, I've been really busy. Sorry about that. Let me check the schedule, and I'll get back to you. And far too often, if I'm really honest with myself, what is driving the motivation behind that decision is what I can get out of the relationship. And James is saying that doesn't demonstrate the values of the kingdom of God. What you can get out of a relationship, that is not following the example of Jesus. Jesus laid down his life for people that brought nothing to the table to demonstrate the love of the kingdom of God. Verse 4 summarizes this point so well. He says, when you do this, when you discriminate, when you show partiality, doesn't it reveal that you become a judge with evil thoughts? We're valuing the wrong thing. We're valuing what can be added to our lives,

power, success, social approval, status, or acceptance. When we do this, we're trying to create for ourselves a sense of safety from our tribe. A sense of safety from the kingdom that we're actually living for. But oftentimes, that safety is built on discrimination. We build up our tribe by tearing down other tribes. And this type of safety is temporary and fleeting. If we treat people harshly to build up our own kingdom, you don't think there's another group of people that are stronger with more numbers that can tear down our tribe by building themselves up? You don't think that this isn't a rocks and stones type game we're playing? Discrimination might get you ahead with your tribe temporarily, but mercy will get you ahead with your king eternally. Discrimination, it might build you some status. It might get you some popularity in your group.

It might make you feel secure for a while, but you are building up a kingdom that is temporary. You are building up a safety net that will go away. But the kingdom of God is eternal, and the kingdom of God is built on mercy. We're going to see later in this passage that James is going to put mercy in contrast with discrimination. And mercy is whenever we extend love and grace and compassion to people, whether or not they can earn it or not, whether or not they deserve it or not. Discriminating against people shows that we are valuing the wrong thing. Secondly, it shows that we're living for the wrong kingdom. James goes on in verse 5. He says, Listen, my beloved brothers, has God not chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom

which he has promised to those who love him. But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich ones who oppress you and those who drag you into court? Are not they the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called? James says, Discrimination, treating people differently based on what they bring to the table, reveals that you are living for the wrong kingdom. He reminds them that the kingdom of God is built upon those who are poor in spirit, who are poor in this world but strong in faith. Think about the ways in which God has built his kingdom in the past. Abraham, the father of the nation of Israel, was a middle-aged guy living in his dad's basement. No real plan for his future. No children to give him any earthly value.

He was just coasting through life. And God said, I see the faith in you. Not what you bring to the table. Not the family of origin that you come from. I see faith inside of you. I'm going to choose you to be the father of many nations. Think about Joseph. He was a know-it-all young kid that didn't fit in with the rest of his family. He just couldn't figure out the social dynamics. He just kept offending his brothers and his parents. And he kept pinning his dad against his brothers. And he was just this know-it-all kid. And God saw the faith in the life of Joseph and used Joseph to rescue the nation of Israel. Think about Moses. Moses was a convict on the run, hiding. God saw the faith in Moses. Moses said, I can't even talk in public.

And God said, no, you're going to go. I'm going to use you despite of what you bring to the table. Think about David. David was a runt of the family. His own dad didn't even see any real potential in him. And God used him to establish the kingdom. Think about Jesus. A homeless man who wasn't anything special to look at. A man of sorrows acquainted with grief. This is the king of the kingdom that we live for. The kingdom of God is not about what you can bring to the table externally. The kingdom of God is about the faith that you have in your hearts. And when we choose to treat people based on what we can see externally, we're choosing to treat people based on not the values of the kingdom of God, but the values of this world.

Oh, and contrary to belief, contrary to popular belief in American theology, none of those people I just discussed were white. And yet, you look at the paintings that we have of Jesus. Anyway, that's, I'm meddling there. I'm not going to do that. The kingdom of God is far more concerned with our faith, our internal faith than our external value. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Paul says, Brothers and sisters, consider your calling. Not many of you were wise from a human perspective. Not many of you were powerful. Not many of you were noble of birth. Instead, God has chosen what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God has chosen what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God has chosen what is insignificant and despised in the world, what is viewed as nothing to bring to nothing,

what is viewed as something so that no one may boast in his presence. This will preach itself. It is from him that you are in Christ Jesus, who became wise from God for us. He became our righteousness, our sanctification, and redemption in order that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God is an upside-down kingdom. The king of our kingdom doesn't discriminate based on what he can get out of you. Our king kneels down and washes the feet of tax collectors and goes to the cross for the very people that are choosing to kill him. This is the kingdom that we've been invited into. And so when we discriminate, when we choose to devalue people based on what they can bring to the table externally,

based on the value that we can see from them externally, we are choosing to live for a different kingdom. We rank people and discriminate against them based on what they can do for us. James is saying that discrimination goes against everything that Jesus died to create. At best, when we show discrimination, we're a walking contradiction. And at worst, maybe we've been deceived into believing that we have a genuine relationship with God when we're just doing external moral behaviors. So maybe you're here and you've always felt other than. You never fit in socially. You never felt like you added much value to the table. You never measured up. You never fit the mold. You never... Think about the high school lunch table. You didn't even have a table. And Jesus is saying this kingdom is for you.

Your value isn't based on external earthly situations. Your value isn't based on what people at your workplace say about you. Your value is based on your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I think far too often we preach a gospel in our churches that invite people to measure up, to live up to a certain standard that we've created. When the kingdom of God is about faith in Jesus, realizing that we bring nothing to the table. That Jesus brought everything to the table for us.

Maybe you're here and you're realizing that deep down in the depths of your heart, far more often than you would like to admit, you prioritize building your earthly kingdom rather than your heavenly kingdom. Maybe you internally rank people based on what they look like, how much money they have, or what they can do for you socially. And let's let the Spirit of God this morning just convict us. Let's do what we talked about last week. Let's just let the Word of God tell us what is true. Not in guilt and shame, but in an invitation to something better. And let's take steps in the right direction. I love what Brian Loritz says. He says, Biblical love is inconveniencing yourself for the convenience of others. Biblical love is inconveniencing yourself for the convenience of others. And far too often, the way that we treat people is, what are they going to do for me?

Not what can I do for them. Discrimination reveals that we're living for the wrong kingdom. And then finally, it reveals that we're prioritizing the wrong law. Verse 8, he says, If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. You are doing well. But if you show favoritism, if you discriminate, you are committing a sin, and you are convicted by the law of transgressors. Whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it. For he who said, do not commit adultery, also said, do not murder. If you do not commit adultery, but you murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So James here, in this paragraph, is going to compare two different laws. He's going to compare the law of transgressors to the law of liberty.

The law of liberty, we talked about it last week. The law of liberty is the gospel sets us free. The law of liberty says you cannot live up to the righteous standard of God. It says all have sinned and fall short and deserve the punishment of God. This is the law of liberty because Jesus died in our place for our sins. We have been set free from the requirements of the law, and we've been invited to live according to the royal law, which just says love God and love others. That's what we've been invited to because of what Jesus has done for us. But he says, so often, believers, what they want to do is they want to judge themselves by the law of liberty, and they want to judge other people by the law of transgressors.

How hypocritical is it of us to say, we could never live up to this external standard. We've fallen short, but we've received the grace of God. But you come into this place, and you're not living up to the standards that I want you to live up to. How hypocritical is it for us to judge other people based on an external law when we've been judged by the grace and mercy of God? According to the law of transgressors, we are all guilty. We have all fallen short of God's standards, and the penalty for that sin is death. But the law of liberty says that Jesus lived a life that was perfect in light of the law of transgressors. He was righteous, and yet he paid our penalty by dying in our place for our sins. Christians, again, who discriminate, we want to be judged by the law of liberty while we judge others by the law of transgression.

We want God to judge us with grace while we judge other people with the law. When we judge people based on the law of transgressors, the question that we ask is, how does this person measure up to a list of external rules that I get to control? And it leads us to selfish discrimination. How does this person measure up to what I think they should be, who I think they should, how I think they should live, what they contribute to me? And when we judge people based on the law of liberty, the only question that we have to ask is, are they my neighbor? That's the new way of living in light of the law of liberty is this royal law. Jesus fulfilled all of the laws perfectly so that we didn't have to get tripped up on how much we fail so that all we get to do now is learn to love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength and learn to love our neighbor as ourself.

I love how Vance Pittman puts it. He says, Far too often, we want to experience God's grace in our own life and then not distribute it to those around us, or at least only distribute it to the people that we want to, based on standards that we create on an economy that we live for. And it reveals to us that we're living for the wrong kingdom, that we're trying to build our kingdom on earth rather than building the kingdom of God on earth as it is in heaven. So I think James is saying here that discrimination reveals that we're valuing the wrong desires, that we're investing in the wrong things, that we're asking the wrong questions. It reveals that we're living for the wrong kingdom and that we're prioritizing the wrong law. It reveals, when we discriminate, when we treat people this way, it reveals that at best we're walking contradiction and at worst we've been deceived into believing that something's true of us that's not actually true of us.

I was listening to another pastor preach the book of James earlier in the week and he said, The tension in preaching the book of James is that James is clearly trying to get moral religious people to realize that they don't actually have a relationship with God, that they're being deceived into believing that something's true of them that's not true of them. On the same note, when you do that, what often happens is genuine believers who are just struggling hear that with guilt and condemnation. And so there's this balance beam that I have to walk here when we talk about James, where like those of you that are genuine followers of Jesus being transformed by the inside out but are struggling, because we are all struggling, there's grace for you. There's forgiveness for you. This is James just helping you see how you're living in light of a different kingdom,

that you've been invited into something so much better, and so just set that aside and move forward. But for those of us who have hardened hearts, who have never experienced the love and grace of God, he wants us to realize that, to stop living moral lives and to start receiving the grace of God, being transformed from the inside out, again, not in guilt and shame, but inviting us into something so much better. The famous C.S. Lewis quote, it's not in my notes, but it just covers it so well. We cover it all the time. Like, we've been invited into something better. The religion is like kids playing in the dirt when they've been invited to a vacation at the beach. Moral living is this thing that we say no to the beach because we like this sandbox that we get to play in,

and we don't realize how much better the kingdom of God is than the kingdom of this earth. He goes on in verse 12 and 13 to wrap it all up. He says, So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. He's saying, If you perceive the grace of God, the forgiveness of God, extend that grace and forgiveness to others, not based on what they bring to the table, but equally to all people. For judgment is without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy. And mercy triumphs over judgment. He says, Don't live a contradictory life. Don't judge people based on the law of external, when you've received forgiveness for your sins, when you've been extended to grace through the law of liberty.

Christ demonstrated his love for you in that while you were in rebellion to him and had nothing to offer, had nothing to bring to the table. He laid down his life for you. And you've been invited to extend that same grace and love to other people when they don't deserve it, when they're not bringing something to the table. Not only this, like this is the upside down kingdom. Sometimes not only are they not bringing something to the table, but they're bringing something negative to the table. This is where Jesus tells us to love our enemies and to pray for those who persecute you. Not only are we supposed to extend grace equally to everyone until they wrong us, but even after they wrong us, we continue to extend grace and mercy and love because that is the value of the king who came to show grace and mercy and love to us

when we were his enemies, when we were far from him, when we were in rebellion to him. Jesus hung on the cross. Roman soldiers were laughing at the bottom of it, gambling over his clothes. And he says, Forgive them, Father, for they know not what they do. This is the example of our king. This is the value of the kingdom that we've been invited to live into. And so when we discriminate against others based on what we think they bring to the table, what we think they offer, we're showing that we value, we're living for a value system of a totally different kingdom. Finally, I love the summary statement at the end, verse 13. Here's the deal. We might get ahead temporarily using judgment as our main source of, as our main economy. We might be able to use judgment to get ahead, to build our little kingdom for a while.

But eventually, that's going to bite us because when we judge others, they're going to judge us by the same standards that we judge them.

James is saying, ultimately, mercy is going to triumph over judgment. Let's be a people who live in light of the kingdom now as we wait for Jesus to bring it to earth once and for all. So again, if you're here and you've always judged yourself harshly, you've always felt like you didn't have anything to offer anybody, always felt less than, man, the kingdom of God is for you. You've been invited to sit at the table of King Jesus. He laid down his life to demonstrate that you are worthy of his affection, that you are worthy of his sacrifice. And it doesn't matter what anybody else has to say about you. The King of the universe laid down his life to demonstrate your value. You've been invited to sit at the table. If you're here and you've received that grace and that mercy and you're realizing that you don't always extend it to others,

and just receive that conviction, choose to believe that what God says is better and take steps of obedience in the right direction, not out of shame and guilt, but out of an invitation to something better. And for all of us, let this be a reminder that God's kingdom is an upside-down kingdom. It does not discriminate by power, skill, social status, race, political party, or any other external reality.

It's what Revelation says about the kingdom of God in Revelation chapter 7, verse 9 and 10. John says, And for this I looked and behold a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, from every political party and socioeconomic status, from every area of life, standing before the throne and before the lamb clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands, crying out with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the lamb. This is the kingdom of God. There's a table for everyone who would receive it. You've been invited to the table of God through the sacrifice of Jesus. All you have to do is receive it. So I can't think of a better way for us to end our time this morning than to take communion together.

This communion is a reminder that we've been invited to the table and that all we have to do is take the cup to eat the bread, to drink the wine that represents Christ's body broken for us, his blood shed for us. What better reminder that we've all been invited. But there's a seat for anyone who would sit down. There's a passage in Revelation that says, After God brings his kingdom down to earth, the gate is always open. Like it's a reminder that the table has been prepared by the sacrifice of Jesus and it's for everyone who would receive it. So if you're here and you've received that, you believe that you've fallen short of God's standard and that the only way that you deserve a seat at the table is through the sacrifice of Christ.

And here in a minute we're going to take communion together. But maybe you're here and deep down in your heart you think you deserve a seat at the table because of your pedigree. Because of who you are and how much better you are than other people. You play this moral-religious comparison game. These are the type of people that James is saying, Don't be deceived. That's not the kingdom. That's moral religion that won't get you anywhere in the end. Don't waste your time checking boxes when you've been invited to feast at the table of the Lord. So maybe that's you. Again, God's inviting you to the table. He's extended grace that you don't deserve. And this is what we've been invited to. So if you're not a follower of Jesus and you hear that invitation today

and you want to receive that invitation, that invitation is received by faith. There's nothing special that you have to do. And I would say, I would say, in my opinion, there's no better way for you to receive that than to take communion for the first time as a public expression of the faith that you're committing to Jesus today. So this is for those of us that we consider ourselves followers of Jesus as a reminder that we've been invited to the table through the sacrifice of Jesus. For those of you that would consider that true about yourselves this morning, let's take the wafer that represents Christ's body broken for us.

Let's drink the juice that represents Christ's blood said for us. Let's pray with me. Father, we thank you so much for the invitation to sit at your table to eat your body and drink your blood. It sounds really weird. But it's a reminder of what it costs, the price that you paid in order to buy for us a seat at the table. God, may we not waste the grace and mercy that you've extended to us by not extending it to other people. And may we not be a people that live in contradiction. May we be a people where our lives are slowly but surely lining up with the values of the kingdom of God. That we are slowly but surely being conformed to the image of Jesus falling in line with the way that you designed

for us to live. And God, through that, may the kingdom of God be visible in the city of Winchester as it is in heaven. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.
