An Honoring Church
2022-10-24
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0N-OqTb2M4

Well, good morning church. Great to be with you this morning. If you haven't met me yet, my name is Brian, I am one of the pastors here. So encouraging to refocus our attention through music on Jesus and remind ourselves that he is the one that truly matters. And so I'm thankful for that and thankful for Pastor Brian last week reminding us in this series, My Part Matters, that My Part Only Matters because Jesus' part matters exceedingly and abundantly more than our part matters, laying the foundation for our obedience mattering to this whole thing. So we've been in a series called My Part Matters where we're really just looking at some intentional actions and attitudes that we as individual believers are going to have to, like, cling to if this thing is going to work. And by this thing, I mean a healthy church merger, right?

I mean two congregations together to become one. It's important that each one of us take seriously the commands of Jesus, the commands of the New Testament when it comes to church unity. And if we just talk about it and don't do it, then it won't get done. Or if some of us do it, and others of us don't do it, it still won't get done. We have to do this thing together. So that's kind of the theme for our series. And not only does your part matter, but so is my part, right? And Pastor Matt's part and our leadership part. The leadership kind of has a different part in this story. And the part that we really need to be doing at the moment is charting the course, showing you all the direction that we are headed as a church.

And I think to be completely transparent and vulnerable, that's one of the areas that maybe I haven't done as well as I could have in this immediate process, and waiting for Matt to get back. And so that's really the next kind of thing that he and I are going to be focusing on. But just for some clarity, when you're charting the course, where we are as a church and where we're headed, man, so far, the process of this merge has gone so much more seamlessly and beautifully than any of us could have ever imagined. We believed it, we thought that it was going to be good, but just know that difficulty comes. And so we've been calling it, a lot of us behind the scenes have been calling it the honeymoon phase, right? Like, things are good.

But as you learn to live together, those of you that are married know that as you learn to live together, things come up that you weren't fully prepared for or didn't see coming. And so this new stage in our church merger, we've been kind of using this language, learning to live together. And I remember when Melissa and I got married, I was living in an apartment for a couple of months in my hometown. I had a full-time job. I had a life. I had a pattern. I had things that I did. And one of the worst things that I did in the first year of marriage was I kind of just, like, kept doing life. And she moved into my apartment and participated in my schedule. And it was like, I didn't even realize what I was doing.

But what I was doing is I was inviting us to start this new life together. But in reality, I was asking her to just do my stuff. And I think that if we're not careful, that could be what both congregations feel. Like, I've heard one of which, like, well, we've always done things this way. Or we've always had this ministry. Or we've done this thing this way. Or, well, we did things this way. And I think as we learn to live together, part of it is going to be us, like, pausing for long enough to figure out what things need to continue. And what things we can recreate together. We can reimagine as a congregation what God is calling us to in our community as a new congregation. Not as both previous congregations, how things were previously.

But what is the new thing that God is calling us to do? And I believe that part of that trajectory is us as a leadership part in that course. I just want to tell you that I believe in this leadership principle about leading as fast as it is wise. I believe that the kingdom of God is important and we should be about doing things. We should be about making a difference in our community. But I also want to make sure that we get out of the gate at the right pace. I recently started Lungus in front of me a couple years ago. And I have a pace. It's not a very fast pace, but it's a pace. And I know how fast so I should start depending on how long that I'm going to go.

And I've got all those earbuds that talk to me. Does anybody runners know what's going on here? So what happens is sometimes I think I'm starting a real good pace. Like, you know, I'm feeling good. Life's good. And depending on the weather, like, that feels different. Here it comes into my ear and she's like, mile one. And she gives me the pace. And there's, like, certain numbers that I'm like, oh, no. This is going to be a problem. I'm running too fast, right? Like, it feels good right now, but it is going to catch up to me very, very quickly. And so what I don't want for us as a church is I don't want us to just get out of the gate at this grazing, fast pace where things feel great, like we're doing awesome things for the kingdom, but we're not really taking care of what we need to take care of.

And so my fear is that if you get out of the gate too fast, we might have some initial success, but that might get in the way of our long-term success. And my hope and my prayer, and I know many of our hopes and prayers, is that this church should be a kingdom outpost in this community for a long time to come. And so if we're going to do that, we need to move as fast as it's wise. And for many of you, as fast as it's wise, it's going to feel way too slow. And for many of you, as fast as it's wise, it's going to feel way too fast. And so my hope and my prayer is that we would kind of figure that pace out together as a leadership to start that course.

One thing that I want to do over the next couple of weeks when that gets back is just give us a 12-month calendar of when we're going to start to really focus on certain things like small groups and outreach and discipleship strategies. And all of the things that I know you guys are eager to get started on, just keep pacing with us if we seek to start a course that is as fast as it's wise. Is that fair? All right. That's my five-minute Savior of the Church address pre-sermon. Please continue to be praying for us as a church and our leadership as we start to start this course. Now, as we turn our eyes to our sermon series this morning, the My Part Matters, we really have been talking about it's been going from big picture to practical, right?

We've talked about large attitudes, and then we've gotten down to really specific actions. And today is my last message in this series, and it's going to be the last really practical message. And then we're going to have one more week, and Corey is going to refocus our eyes on the big picture. Because what happens oftentimes is when we move from big picture to practical, we lose sight of the big picture. And so Corey's going to refocus our eyes on abiding in Jesus. You can talk about John 16, because the reality is, as we get so focused on specific behaviors, we become religious Pharisees and not peace followers. So the practical behaviors are really important, but they're only important if they're done through a true, abiding relationship with Jesus. I'm preaching Corey's message next week, so I'm going to stop.

But we're kind of finishing this really practical part of the series and refocusing our attention on the big picture. If I'm honest, as I was trying to think of what's the last behavior that I'm going to focus on, what's the last practical behavioral advice am I going to give for us to have unity in the church, I couldn't pick one. It was like, there's so many. Like, half of the New Testament is these commands and these practical advices for unity. And so I did pick one. It took me a while. But I also want to, just for context sake, do something that is not normal for me, but I think will be really beneficial. So, before we get into the one last specific practical behavior that matters, I'm going to read a really large section of Scripture.

Is that okay? You guys like to read the Bible together that loud? So, what happens here is, is the behavior that we're going to talk about falls in the middle of Romans chapter 12. And Romans chapter 12 is Paul's kind of, his transition to behavior. Like, he does some theology for behavior. It's actually his version of Ephesians chapter 4, which is the text that we've been spending a lot of time in the past couple of weeks. It's just a little bit more blow to it because you haven't been in person with the Romans. It's going to do way more work. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to read Romans chapter 11, verse 33, through the end of Romans chapter 12. And what I'd encourage us to do as a church is this week, every day this week, I'd encourage you, if you're going to spend time with the Lord,

just stop, and for three minutes, just read this passage, and think about these behaviors. Think about these attitudes and these actions that Paul is saying will lead to a healthy and unified church. And ask the Holy Spirit to, like, make the ones that you need to work on, like, pop out. So that you understand, like, oh, these are areas in my life that I need to submit to the Holy Spirit. And also, like, ask the Lord to say the ones that you're good at. You can see the encourage, like, oh, I might be bad at this one, but I'm good at this one. So, if you're able and healthy, and you want to, you can stand with me as we read this passage. This person, if you're not, there's no judgment. This is a judgment tree.

So, let's just think about the attitudes and actions of a healthy and unified church. Paul, at the end of his beautiful expectation on the gospel of Jesus, says this, Oh, how great are God's riches and wisdom and knowledge. How impossible is it for us to understand his decisions and his ways, for who to know the Lord's thoughts? Who knows enough to give him advice, and who has given him so much that he needs to be repaid? For everything comes from him and exists by his power and is intended for his glory. Everything exists by his power and is intended for his glory. All glory to him forever. Amen. And so, because that's true, because everything exists for God's glory, let us give our bodies to God because of all he has done for us. Let them be a living and holy sacrifice, the kind that you will find acceptable.

This is truly the way to worship him. Don't copy the behaviors and customs of this world, but let God transform you into a new person by changing the way that you think. Then you will learn to know what God's will for you, his specific behaviors and actions that are good and pleasing and perfect. Because of the privilege and authority God has given me, I give each of you this warning. Don't think of yourselves better than you really are. Be honest in your evaluation of yourselves, measuring yourselves by the faith that God has given you. Just as our bodies have many parts, and each part has a special function, so it is with Christ's body. We are many parts of one body, and we all belong to each other. In his grace, God has given us different gifts for certain things.

So if God has given you the ability to prophesy, speak out with as much faith as God has given you. If your gift is serving, serve each other well. If your gift is teaching, teach well. If your gift is to encourage, be encouraging. If it's giving, give generously. If God has given you the ability to lead, take that responsibility seriously. And if you have a gift for showing kindness to others, do it gladly. Don't just pretend to love others. Really love them. Treat what is wrong and hold tightly to what is good. Love each other with genuine affection and take delight in honoring one another. And that will be lazy, but work hard. Serve the Lord enthusiastically. Rejoice in our confident hope. Be patient in trouble. Keep on praying. When God's people are in need, be ready to help them.

Always be eager to practice hospitality. Bless those who persecute and don't curse them. Pray that God will bless them. Be happy with those who are happy and root with those who weep. Live in harmony with each other. Don't be too proud to enjoy the company of ordinary people and don't think you know it all. Never pay back evil with more evil. Do things in such a way that everyone can see you are unable. I think this is a really important verse here for our entire process. Do all that you can to live in peace with everyone. Dear friends, never take revenge. Read that to the righteous anger of God. The Scripture says, I will take revenge. I will give them back, says the Lord. Instead, if your enemies are hungry, feed them, if they are thirsty, give them something to drink.

In doing this, you will heap burning holes of sodium on their heads. Don't let evil conquer you. I'll conquer evil by doing good. This is the word of the Lord. You can be seated. Let's pray. Father, we are so thankful that you give us guidance and direction for how to live in harmony with one another. How to live in peace with one another. How to form a community that then makes an impact in the larger community. To form a community that's focused on submitting their lives to the word and leadership of Jesus. And being transformed into a new community that's built on the principles that this community was designed to be built around. And as we form that community, when we go out into the greater community and demonstrate what it looks like to live in accordance with policies that are.

And people find hope and feeling and peace in the next present. For your glory and for our good. And you stand like that. That's a lot of really, really practical teaching in Romans 2 and in the rest of the book of Romans. But I really want to focus on two verses here in the middle. And before we get there, have any of you ever been a part of an organization that was kind of restating their mission, vision, value statement? Or maybe there's a new organization being created? I mean, have you been a part of this process? I've been a part of this process a lot. And I say this because Scriptures are always reimagining their mission, vision, and value statement. And I've thought about why that is. And I think it's because Christians are stubborn and pastors always feel like they have to give new dialogue, new creative ways to convince people to do the thing that God's always called us to do.

Now, even if you look at Paul's epistles, a lot of the Paul's general epistles, they all say the same thing in a different way. Like, he's just trying to get the believers to do the thing that God's calling them to do. And so, when you think about mission, vision, and value statements, the mission is what do we want to see happen, right? Like, what's the overarching big picture goal? I mean, the mission is how do we envision that happening in this specific context? And then the values are kind of working that out practically. If we want the vision to happen, what are the behaviors, what are the things that have to happen for our mission and our vision to be accomplished? And I think this is a helpful framework for our message this morning because I think Paul is going to do that in these two verses.

He's going to give us, like, a big picture of things. This is what I want to happen in the church, and this is how I want it to happen. This is what I want to see it look like. And then ultimately, he's going to do one specific behavior that is kind of the loop span or the catalyst for that mission, vision, and value. Sound like a plan? All right. I can't do people know that I often ask that question, and I don't care what the answer is because I already wrote the message. So that's what we're going to do. So Paul's mission for a unified church. He transitions, like I said, from theology to practice. And then he gives it to this on using your gifts. Kent talked about that a few weeks ago, as he just said before.

Understanding the gifts that you've been given, your calling, and living in light of that. And then he transitions to really practical before he reads in verse 9. He says, don't just pretend to love others. Really love you. Hate what is wrong and hold tightly to what is good. And this is Paul's mission statement for the church at Rome. This is what he wants to be happening in their midst. He wants them to really love each other. You guys know, those of you who have been in church a long time, you know this is agape. This is unconditional love. He wants you to love each other the way that God has loved you. He wants you to hate sin, and he wants you to pursue righteous living. I don't think any of us would disagree with that.

Like, that is a pretty good mission statement to the church. Love each other. Hate sin. Just like, pretty much, we could say amen and go home, right? That's Paul's mission statement. He says, we could love each other because God has loved us. 1 John 4.19. We love because he first loved us. And then we define love. Our definition for that love is rooted in Jesus. 1 John 3.16. This is how we know what love looks like. That he gave his life right so we should also give our lives for one another. So this is Paul's big picture mission statement. Understand how much God loves you. Extend that love to your brothers and sisters in Christ. Be obedient to what God commands you. Anybody disagree with that? Not pretty solid advice. But it's somewhat abstract, right?

It's so big picture that that's one of those things that as Christians we can just agree with and then leave. But what does it look like to live God? And so Paul transitions from his mission to the church to love each other, to take delight in doing good and hating evil. And then he gives a vision statement. What does he really want this to look like? And this is where it gets interesting. In Romans chapter 10, he says, love one another with genuine affection. Love one another with genuine affection. So he moves from his big picture command. Essentially, he's saying, you should love each other because God says so. Like, you're commanded to love one another unconditionally. But that's a big abstract idea. But what I really want you to do is absolutely like each other.

I want you to become family with one another. He moves from agape to phileo, right? Like, from commanded love, from the thing that you're supposed to do because God told you to do it, to absolutely liking each other, familial love. So Paul wants us, ultimately, as a church, he wants the church at Rome to move from loving each other because he has to, to genuinely having familial affection for one another. Loving people that you don't like can be difficult and grimy. So if that was all Paul gave us, like, love each other because God loved you, hate sin, do what's right, and move on, we can all agree with that, but that gets really exhausting when you're constantly coming into a room full of people that you don't really like, that you have to love because God told you to.

Sounds like church sometimes, right? And so Paul wants to know, like, this is, this is, yes, this is a big picture, this is what we need you to do, but I want it to look different. I want you to genuinely like each other. And this is difficulty. This takes time and then takes him in effort. It's my experience that there is no microwave for genuine affection. Like, it doesn't happen overnight. And so there's this placeholder called saying, like, just love each other because God said so. Like, do that for now, but I want you to move from that to something deeper, something better. I want you to become family. The body of Christ's church is supposed to be family, and then it takes time and energy and effort and prayer.

The reality is a lot of us in this room, we love each other because God told us to. My heart for our church is that we would learn to live together in a way that moves from commanded love to genuine affection. So what is that? How do we do that? How do we learn to love each other with genuine affection? How do we move from commanded love to genuine affection? See, Paul gives a behavior in action that I wouldn't even have on the top ten of my list if I were to make a list of how a church was supposed to move from commanded love to genuine affection. I think if we all sat down and made a list, some of our lists would be similar, and I doubt that any of you would include what Paul has first on his list.

If he wants the church to move from commanded love to genuine affection, the first behavior that he gives, he says, take delight in honoring one another. Honor? That's kind of weird, right? Like, that's the first thing on the list if we're going to move from commanded love to genuine affection. How do we, what does that look like? In the rest of the book of Romans, there's going to be a ton of different behaviors of how to move from commanded love to genuine affection. But the first one, the first one that he gives is omni. That doesn't necessarily hit our ears normal in our Western culture. Like, that's not a word that we use very often. When's the last time you've heard somebody use the word honor in front of it? Maybe, like, your kid's on the honor roll, possibly?

But as of the matter, like, it's not a word that we use. It can be gay, and please wait. So what does it mean? If this is Paul's catalyst for moving from commanded love to genuine affection, we need to understand what it means. The word honor, it has this idea in the value of a product or the rank of an officer. The value of a product or the rank of an officer. So when you honor something, you're saying, this is how much you're worth. This is how much this product is worth. Or this is how much respect this person is worth. Those of you that were in the military know that as people go up and rank, you just command it to honor them more, right? To value them more. To go out of your way to show respect to them.

Essentially, honoring one another is choosing to assign a high value to a servant. Now, now that we can't unpack that idea, we can see how this might be a catalyst for moving us from commanded love to genuine affection. If there's a room full of people who are going out of their way to choose to value the person next to them more than their service. To choose to say, you know what, I have a limited time, energy, and resources, but I am going to invest those time, energy, and resources into you, and into you, and into you, because you matter more than me. If we literally sacrifice and choose to see each other as more valuable than ourselves, imagine a room full of people all fighting to serve each other more. All fighting to sacrifice and sacrifice and love each other more.

Imagine what happens as all of us do that together. Genuine affection begins to be formed because we're having conversations, we're sacrificing our time, our energy, and our resources. We're having each other into our homes, and we're doing life together. So Paul says, if you're going to move from commanded love to genuine affection, you've got to start to see each other as valuable. You've got to start to see each other as more valuable than we tend to see each other. How many yard saleers do I have in the middle of you? Many people that are up for yard sale. I grew up in a home with yard saleers. My mom is a big yard saleer. She's walking online, so mom, thanks for the illustration. There's a couple different types of yard saleers. Some yard saleers just want to get rid of stuff.

So they just throw all this stuff out on the lawn, and they're like, just take it. 25 cents, stickers on, everything, doesn't matter. And then, have you ever stopped at a yard sale where, like, the price tags on the junk is, like, ridiculous? These are the type of yard saleers that frustrated me. Where all of their junk is worth, like, exceedingly, abundantly more than it was when it was new. There's no chance they actually want to get rid of it. And my theory behind this is, my theory is that the spouse of the person forced them to put their stuff out there, but they don't want to get rid of it. It's more like $25 for this thing, right? But, oftentimes, the value is in the eyes of the person that's putting the thing on it. They value this thing more than you might value it because it has context and understanding and a background behind it.

This is the type of God that we have. The type of God that sees a high value in you when you don't see it in yourself. He sees a high value in your brother and sister in Christ when you are struggling to see it. When they are getting under your skin. When they are on your nerves. When they are stepping on your toes. When they don't seem valuable to you at all. God sees value in them. 1 Corinthians 6, verse 20. You do not belong to yourself. For God bought you with a high price. Honor, value. God chooses to value you by buying you with a high price. When you weren't worth it, he chose to buy you with a high price. You must honor God with your body. 1 Peter 1, 18-24. You know that God paid a ransom to save you from this empty life.

And it was not paid with mere gold or silver. Very valuable things. Which means their value. It was the precious blood of Christ. The sinless, spotless reign of God. So we get good at honoring one another. We have to realize how valuable we are to the Creator of the universe. And as we learn to realize how valuable we are to the Creator of the universe, we lift our eyes up to our brothers and sisters in Christ. And we choose to assign to them the same value that God assigns to them. We have to realize that they are brothers and sisters created in the image of God. I love the phrase. I've heard many pastors say this before. For this very person, Jesus died. This is honor. When that person is doing something that you don't understand.

When that person is leading in the way of your ministry because they want to do something a different way than you would want to do. What if you chose to say, for that very person, Jesus died. And if they are worthy of the blood of Jesus, they are worthy of my time and my energy and my resources.

Paul said, if you want to move from commanded love to genuine, because he has to, to genuine affection, then it starts by seeing people exactly what it does. So that's by going out of your way to assign a high value to them. And that's something that we do with our time and with our energy and with our resources. But it's interesting to me that not only does he just say what we said on in one letter, it's framed in a competitive language. My translation doesn't really render it this way, but a lot of translations render it outdoing one another and showing on it. It's like this competitive thing. Like, again, imagine a room full of people who were all trying to beat each other at honoring one another. Imagine if we're all assigning more value to one another.

It's going to breed genuine affection. We're going to learn to love each other as we meet each other and see each other with value. I love that he frames me in competitive language. Maybe I'm the only one here. Does anybody ever read Paul and feel kind of offended? Like he's speaking to you like you're an idiot? Anybody? Okay. Sometimes that happens when you're my sister, Paul. And this is, I think, I don't know, I get a little vibe like he's singing us like we're toddlers. And he's like, he's going to convince us to value one another by making it competitive. Any of you ever tried to use this trick with toddlers when they're cleaning their room? I've done this before where it's like trying to get a kid to clean up after themselves. They're not doing it.

And then he says, I bet I can clean this room faster than you can clean this room. Anybody ever done that before? What happens? Depending on the age, I was talking to Michelle about this this week. There's an age where they start to realize what you're doing and they're like, I bet you can't clean this room faster than I can. But there's like this sweet spot where they're like, no way, I'm going to beat you to clean the room. There's something about this competitive nature. It draws out some of those strengths that we have with MS, some of the ability that we have with MS that we don't even realize. And so it's all the same. Like there's one thing to just say, honor each other. He's saying, I bet you can't honor that person more than they honor you.

And imagine, like, it seems silly, but imagine if you did that. Imagine if we were a room full of people that are like, I'm going to choose to honor you more than you choose to honor me. And we meet each other all at the bottom, serving one another sacrificially. Imagine a room full of people that get competitive about assigning a high value to one another. Or even better, assigning the same value that God assigns to them. Romans 5, 8, when we were utterly helpless. Christ came just at the right time. It's a perfect sense. So this means that when you would describe the person to your left or to your right as utterly helpless. Anybody? No? Am I going with you? Like, when you have these interactions with people in the church and you're like, I just don't.

You can't, it's not today. It's in that moment that we remind ourselves that that's how we were before a holy devil. I know that we're in rebellion towards him. We're going the opposite way that he wants us to go. Doing the opposite things that he wants us to do. And it was in that moment where he told us to send his one and only son to purchase us with a high price, to choose to value us, to assign honor to us. And Paul is saying, man, genuine affection can be committed quickly, as quickly as possible, through a group of people choosing to value each other in that way. The type of value that God is inviting us to extend to others is kind of cultural. It's easy to assign value to people that are above you at work.

It's easy to assign value to co-workers that you respect. But God is calling us to give honor to everyone, even when we don't see that they can add value to our lives. How often are we willing to go out of our way to do something for someone because we know it's going to get us something in our time? Don't you guys have some really gross things to you, really, quickly? All right. Man, I'm a golfer. You're going to hear that in my sermons from time to time. I just, I love to golf. Don't think of the expensive hobby, especially in public golf courses. A few times I've had Godly brothers and sisters in Christ who were successful in business invite me to a private golf club. Man, if something happens in my heart where I start to really assign value to that person, I'm like, I am going to go out of my way to make sure this person knows how valuable they are to me.

Why is that? You just don't want to get something in return. You just don't want to get a second and a third and a fourth invite, right? And what if, I think Paul is saying, what if, we chose to demonstrate that type of value to them? And it wasn't like, what can I get from them? But it's just, man, what can I do for that person? How can I demonstrate to that person that they are valuable? Not only to a holy God, but to me, their brother, and sister in Christ. But what if we hold that attitude towards one another? What if we went out of our way to demonstrate to other people that we are valuable? Imagine the relationships that will be formed as we seek not to be served, but to serve. As I was putting this message together, I was reminded of a quote I shared a few months ago in a message on humility.

And I think it really hammers this point home. Like I didn't ask E. Meyer. I don't know who he is, but he sounds like an old, dead, white guy. And usually they have a really good quote. I don't know. So, that's what I want to say. He says this. He says, I used to think that God's gifts were ourselves, one above the other. And the taller we grow, the easier we can reach them. But now I find that God's gifts were ourselves. And the lower we skew, the more that we get. So, if we replace that with this idea of honor, oftentimes what we do is we honor people that are going to help us get high and high up the ladder. But God's kingdom is different than they do. And God is actually found at the bottom of the ladder.

Think about the disciples' views of him. Think about how different they were. You've got Simon, the Zeller, and Matthew, the 10th book. There's literally could not be more polar opposite human beings. And we see bickering and fighting in the disciples. We see them getting in conflict. And we see John essentially dragging and he's faster than Peter. We see all these weird things, right? But I think over a three-year span of being with Jesus and being able to learn from Jesus the way that he values people and honors people, it forms this genuine affection. It moves from, like, we love each other because we've rescued because we're Jesus' disciples. And if we don't, like, he'll do the genius thing where he looks at us really sweetly and nicely and we know it. And he's like, I'm not mad.

I'm not mad. If you've watched, any of you've watched the chosen, the chosen does a really good job of, like, what's playing this out in real life? But, so I think, essentially, we get a bunch of different bickering and these different people all together in a ring. And I think from Jesus' example, we see it, it's a culmination in the last supplement when nobody's volunteering to watch the feet. There's got to be a servant somewhere that's going to do that, right? We've had to, we've got enough money. Like, Jesus has got the pocketbook. Can we tell us ways to clean our seats? And while they're all looking around waiting for somebody to do it, Jesus seeks anyone to begin to watch the seat. And this is Jesus saying, you're valuable. I'm choosing to honor you.

I'm choosing to stoop down below you, to value you more than I value myself. And the beautiful thing is we receive a group of ecstatic, diverse disciples who are learning to live together, who are loving each other because they have to at the beginning, I'm sure. But then, right after the ascension of Jesus, what happens? And they all go up to the afternoon together. Because I think what had happened is over those three years, they moved from commanded love to joy. And there was nobody else they would rather be with in the time of their difficulty, in the time of their struggle, in the time of their Lord leaving. There was nobody they'd rather be together with than each other. And I think, Mary, I just believe that maybe that happened because of the example of Jesus' honoring them.

That they learned to honor one another slowly but surely over time. That they moved from loving each other because they had to to genuine, bodily affection. Now let's be a church full of people that mean each other as above them. A church that we cultivate genuine affection for one another. That we choose to value each other above ourselves. That we take time. When we're in a hurry and when we think the thing that we have to do is more important than anything else anybody else has to do. That we stop. And we look that person in the eye and we remind ourselves, for this very person, Jesus died. And so they, right now, if they've got something going on, they're more important to me than my enemy than I have to go to. They're more important to me than the sex rest that I have to accomplish.

And go out of your way to affirm each other with your words. It's so much easier to tear people down with jokes. We read about this culture in America where it's fun and easy to be sarcastic and to tear people down. But what if we were a church that went out of our way to affirm people with our words? We said, thank you so much for your sacrifice. Thank you so much for the way that you serve my children. The way that you serve my family. The way that you go out of your way and volunteer. Imagine if we all just went out of our way to affirm each other, to encourage each other. Imagine what God might do. If we chose to assign the same value to one another. The God values us with.

I think we move from commanded love, because we have to, because Jesus loved us and we love others. So, like, bring you in and I think people can see the difference. Like, Jesus said that they'll know that you're my disciples by your love for one another. So, if we want to impact this community around us, I think there'll seem to be that we just love each other because we have to. Once we've formed a genuine community that we love each other, a genuine affection for one another. That's my prayer. That's my hope for our church. Let me pray and then we're going to change this into a time of communion, which I think remembers this one really well.

Fathers, we thank you so much that when we were utterly helpless, we chose to thank you. We chose to send your warning on this time to pay. May we understand how valuable we are to you, how we get confident in who you call us to be. May we get confident in how much love we get from you. That we're able to freely extend that love to others. Like, we're like a wellspring filling or overflowing with love and with value to others because we know how valuable we are to you. So, remind us about that value and give us confidence to value others. To your glory and for our good. So, you need to say my prayer. Amen. So, we're going to transition to a time of communion. We're going to do what Donna affectionately calls the lunchables today.

She told me that the other week. She was like, I don't know if we have any more lunchables left. She's in the cafe and so I thought it seems like, Ashley, do you have to do a lot of lunchables? I'm like, why do we need lunchables? No, thanks to me. Which I love. So, no, I've been lovingly and affectionately calling them lunchables.

I think it's important that we take communion at the end of the message on honor and value. Because nothing reminds us of how valuable we are to God. Like, I just didn't go to Christ's body of Christ very complex and the blood of Christ dead for us. So, if you're in here and you're not sure where you're at with Jesus, maybe you're just exploring the whole safe zone. communion is one of probably the strangest things that you'll ever see the church do. But it's also one of the most beautiful things. It's a weekly reminder, friends, of how our sin has separated us from the Holy God. But that he values us. That he loves us so much that he paid the ultimate price. So, if you're here and you're not sure where you're at with that, I would encourage you to not take communion,

but just to consider what this means. To consider what it means that the God of the universe, the creator, the one who has put breath in your lungs and containing your life right now by the power of his words, that he values you so much. He's laid down his life for you. And I'd encourage you to consider how much more fulfilling your life might be if you lived it in response to your creator, who loved you, rather than in response to the desires of your own flesh. And we all know that those desires are strong. And sometimes lead to enjoyment, but we'll never lead to ultimate satisfaction. So, just keep figuring it out. And if you want to talk to anybody about it, find me, find one of our leaders. Somebody will be up here and let's talk about it.

And if you're in here and you're solid, which I think is a whole lot of us, we're going to take the bread and the blood as a reminder of the valuable. Not only you are, but how valuable your brother and sister in Christ is. There's a beautiful thing about when Jesus fell at the Lord's Supper that it was around the table. Not only is it a reminder that Christ broke his body and shed his blood for you. I mean, imagine the challenge it might have been for Peter as though I think about the fact that God valued Matthew the test for you so much. That he broke his body and he shed his blood for you. And how that might refocus us and re-align us to the fact that God valued not only knew so much that he sent his time to die,

but in God, he's your brothers and sisters in Christ. So as we take this, this morning, take this body as a reminder that Christ has broken his body for you and for your brothers and sisters in Christ in Christ in the Lord. Amen. Reminding of the glory of the Lord Christ in the Lord.

I'm going to send you out all this blessing. Brothers and sisters, your value is not determined by how beautiful, talented, or wealthy you are. Nor is it determined by your successes or your failures in life. Your value is the loss and the Christ, the creator, of the universe is willing to take. May you lead this place confident in your value. And with that confidence, may you choose to value those around you the way that God in Christ Jesus is valued. I remember that.
