Kindness Leads to Repentance
2022-07-11
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiLzYa1vhco

Well, good morning, Canvas. It's so, so good to be back with you. I apologize for Ryan. I'm so sad I couldn't be with you guys last week. I was convalescing, but hey, I listened to him and Ryan did a good job. For me, like, telling him on, like, a Saturday at 9 a.m., hey, buddy, sorry about your app tomorrow. Like, he did a really, really good job, so you guys should be thankful for having such a great pastor that's willing to step in on the last minute. Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, for sure. I love Ryan. He's a great guy. Let me ask a question. Did any of you get into any TV shows during the pandemic when you couldn't go anywhere and you started, like, binging, like, 70 seasons of VX files or something like that?

My wife and I, we got into a show called Ted Lasso. Any Ted Lasso fans in the room? There we go. Look, I got to wear this picture just because I was making this analogy in the beginning. So, anyway, Ted Lasso is not familiar with it. It's this TV show. It's based on an old NBC ad campaign. When NBC got the rights for the English Premier League, they hired Jason Zedekes to do these commercials for them. And the idea that he came up with was, what if you took, like, a college football coach from the United States and sent him to coach a real football, like, stalker, like, a real football, a team. No, come on. Anyway. You sent him to the UK to coach a team, and, like, the joke is that the guy has never in

his life kind of, like, you know, heard of football or whatever, so, you know, he doesn't really understand how the game is playing or not. And when the TV show kind of, like, came out, like, the gist of the show was he was terrible at soccer, at football, but he was great as a person. He was, like, this incredibly kind man. And that time is, like, he has kind of, like, what gets his players to rally around for him and whatnot. And, you know, there's all these articles written about this show that say, you know, kind of, like, it's a show that we needed at this time because he was all about kindness in a time where the world felt the most unkind, if you think are. We live in a world, and the pandemic kind of, like, brought this off to the surface, but

I would argue that's been the case for a long time. We live in a world that struggles with kindness. And in the last couple years, we've seen kind of, like, both ends of the spectrum. We've seen people do incredible acts of selflessness and kindness. You know, at the beginning of the pandemic, nobody could go out. There were people, you know, taking health risks and delivering groceries and, you know, rallying up to help people that were at risk. It was incredible, great things. And then also, you know, as things kind of, like, started evolving, we've also seen some of, like, the ugliest parts of who we are. As a country gets polarized over politics and culture wars and whatnot, you know, we've seen, we've said things to each other that could be qualified to some kindness.

If you spend any more than, like, 30 seconds on social media, you can see that. And I'm telling you this today because, you guessed it, we're looking at the fruit of the spirit of kindness. You know, we're journeying through these nine characters, character traits that Apostle Paul talks about in the book of Galatians. And, you know, I'm just going to read the passage again when I catch this after today. So, Galatians 5, 22 says, for the fruit of the spirit is love and joy and peace and forbearance, which is just a fancy word for patience. And today we're looking at kindness. Now, when I hear the word kind, the first thing that comes into my mind for some reason is somebody doing something nice or something generous for a person, right? Like, the first thing I'm just thinking, what do we think when I think of kindness?

For some reason, I think of, like, the guy at the drive-thru at Starbucks that pays for the order of the person behind him. And I'm not even that much of a Starbucks drinker when I think about coffee way too much, I guess. And that's why, like, that's the first thing that comes to my mind. But if I were to ask, it should be here today, right now. Like, we need a poll. Like, what do you think kindness is? Most of you, I would guess, would probably say something like that, like, being kind is being nice or treating people well, which I would argue it's a good thing. Like, really, we shouldn't be treating people bad. But I think that that understanding of kindness can be a little bit too general sometimes. And it misses out on the depth of what kindness is in the Bible, which in turn, then, can make

us miss out on the importance, the true importance of kindness, you know. So, as far as we've been looking at these big virtues, we talked about love, and we talked about, you know, joy, and we talked about peace. And all of these things are, you know, character traits that I would argue, you know, are huge core virtues, you know, understanding of how a person should be. Most, if not all of us, strive to have those things. We want to be known by love, and we want to have love, and joy, and peace. So, it would make sense that the Apostle Paul kind of, like, starts out a passage talking about those big characteristics. But, starting last week, the spiritual spirit kind of, like, take a turn in the passage, right? And last week, we talked about the ADLs of patience, for example.

And I would argue, and you could hear this, but I would argue that these are things that in everyday life, we see as good things, but we don't see them as necessary things, okay? We kind of, like, see them almost like an option, like a bonus, right? Like, I've never heard somebody say, I'm not a loving person, right? Like, even if you're, like, the biggest grouch, right? Like, there's somebody that you like. You know, like, Ernie's mad, he likes Bert, right? Like, there's somebody that you usually like in life. There's somebody that you love. Nobody does not want to have peace. And part of the reason is because we think of these characteristics as something that we would like to experience ourselves. Like, I want to experience peace. I want to experience love. I want to experience joy.

You know what's funny? And maybe it's just my experience. I've heard much more often people say, I'm just not a patient person. I've heard much more often, I'm not just, like, one of those, like, super kind people. You notice that? So, like, it's almost like we have in our minds a hierarchy of characteristics, and some of them are things that we think everybody should have. And then there are others that we start thinking, oh, maybe, you know, it's optional, right? And then what's funny, though, is that we kind of, like, see things as an anomaly. Like, it's rare for a person to be super kind. So, it's remarkable. If you've ever seen one of those random acts of kindness campaigns, kind of like the guy paying for the Starbucks of the person behind him, what makes an act of kindness random is

precisely that it's not something that always happens, right? It's something that's rare. So, like, oh, my goodness, somebody pays for a Starbucks. That's great. I'm not, by the way, saying this so you buy me a Starbucks, because usually people are like, hey, do you want to say something? I'm good. I'm just using this as an example. The point is that it's not something that people normally do. And what makes it interesting, though, is that this fruit of the spirit that we read, and I always write and say this is kind of like when he introduced the series. If you notice the language, the Bible doesn't talk about fruits of the spirit. It talks about fruit of the spirit. It's almost like all nine of these things are like a package deal, like God wants to produce

all nine of you. So, if you don't consider yourself a patient person, or if you consider yourself a trying person, I have good news and bad news for you. And the bad news is that God kind of like wants you to be patient and kind. The good news is that God wants, that's going to work in your life. The Holy Spirit wants to work in your life to turn you into a person that has patience and kindness. The way that you read how the Apostle Paul talks about these things, it's almost like he wants Christians to become some of the kindest people on the earth. And the kind of thing about that is that in the last few years, some Christians actually have become known for our harshness, not for our kindness. And I think that at the core of that, part of the problem is that we don't think that

kindness is that important. Yes, we're called to love our neighbors, right? And by the way, the Bible says that we're called to love our enemies, too. But sometimes we think about love coming like in this abstract way, you know what I'm saying? I don't want bad things to happen to you, but I just want to be nice to you. We've got a lot of things like tough love, right? There are ways that we can compartmentalize the identity of God calling us to love people without thinking that we actually have to be kind to them. And I think that this is going to happen that we personally don't really understand what kindness is. And the question is, kindness is so important and so central to who Jesus is. Because remember, our work in Jesus is that all of these nine characteristics are basically what Jesus looked like on earth, right?

And if that's so important, how can we recover the importance of kindness? And I would argue that it begins by understanding what the Bible is actually talking about when it talks about being kind. I told you before this, I think, one of the biggest challenges of this experience in particular is that so many of the words when you read, like, you know, love, joy, peace, patience, a lot of the original words in the Greek language that the New Testament was written in are words that don't have, like, a one-to-one equivalent in English, and the words that we come up with in English is, like, the closest thing that we can come up with, but the real word actually means a little bit more. And with kindness, that's the case. So when you read the word, like, kindness in Eligence of 32,

the Greek word is the word prestotex, and you don't need to know that. It's just, I like saying it, and it looks cool. Okay? So, chrysides is the real Greek word for kindness. Now, the problem with this word is that it's a word that's just a number of different ways in the Greek language. It can be good. It can mean gentle. It can be merciful. One of the things that's interesting means is the idea that it can be, I'm really, like, the dictionary trying to, like, kind of, like, get a full glass of work, and one of the words that comes up is, like, serviceable, which for me sounds like a car and an oil change, right? But the point of kind of, like, the writers is that it's not just wanting good things to happen for people.

It's wanting things that help a person, right? Something that's good for them. Again, by example, I take care of my son during the day when my wife is working during the school year, and one of the conversations that we have is that he doesn't get enough vegetables in his diet when I'm overstaying him. There's a lot of chicken nuggets with six flavors because I love my son and I want good things for him, right? But, but, these are good delicious things, but vegetables are good for him. You know what I'm saying? Like, it's wanting good that's good for a person. I don't know if you remember, for example, the passage in Matthew 11, sorry, where Jesus says, my yoke is easy and my burden is like that. My yoke is easy? That's actually the same word for time.

It's a precipice word. It's like, it's my yoke, like the thing I'm willing to do is something that's actually good for you. So, it's not just being nice. It's more like having a disposition towards a person for their good. When you read, for example, in 1 Peter, it says, that is to see that the Lord is good. That good is the same word for time. One of my favorite definitions when I was looking at this is the definition that the word Christchartes means to be actively benignant. That it is one thing good, but it's one thing good for a person that's active, that takes action, that moves towards a person. In the Old Testament, if you read the Old Testament in English, you're going to see the word kind. And normally, there's two Hebrew words that sometimes get translated as kind.

The first one is the word chasset. And the word chasset is a fascinating word because the word chasset is probably the hardest word to translate in the Old Testament because we have no really full equivalent in English to encompass the breadth of how much it is used. Last week, Ryan used this passage in the book of Exodus. I want to read it to you again. Exodus chapter 34, starting on verse 6. And he passed in front of Moses proclaiming, The Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness. This passage, when it keeps going, it's basically God describing himself. And this passage is actually the passage most quoted in the Bible by the Bible. Because this is like God's calling card. When God describes himself, this is how he describes himself.

Which is, abounding in love. That word for love is the word chasset. So sometimes chasset is translated as love, but sometimes it's translated as kindness. Sometimes it's translated as unfailing love, as covenant love. One of my favorite translations, depending on certain Bibles that you have, you might read the word loving kindness. Loving kindness is the word chasset. So it's almost like the love of God, the way that God describes his love, it's intricately connected with his kindness. It's not just a feeling. It's love expressed as kindness. Okay? So there's this element of kind of like disposition towards somebody. There's this element of wanting something that benefits a person. And now all of a sudden, like God's actually tying out the idea of kindness with the idea of love. That if God calls us to love, apparently God also calls us to be kind.

The other word in Hebrew that sometimes gets translated as time is the word chass. And actually, in the ancient Greek translations of the Old Testament, a lot of times the word chass gets translated as chassetus. The same word from the Galatians passage. And again, chass means good or goodness. It's just familiar with Psalm 23. The last part of Psalm 23 says, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. That word for goodness is the word chass. The kindness of God is going to follow me all the days of my life. So think about all these concepts, right? We have love and we have goodness and we have mercy and we have, you know, a goodness that is profitable or serviceable for a person. So if we were to combine all these ideas together, I came up with this working definition.

It doesn't sound kind of like one of those Rick Warren, like, acronym things, but it's kind of like the best I could come up to give you the full idea. I would define kindness. I think the Bible defines kindness as a way of interacting with people that flows out of love, that is gentle, and that seeks their good. Now, can you see how that is so much deeper than just being nice to someone? Now, here's the thing. I hear that. And my first thought is, you know what? That's nice, no pun intended. That's a nice definition right there. But you cannot possibly expect me to be like that with everybody, right? I mean, so what you're thinking, I'm burning like that to my kids. They're my kids, right? They're not even talking about my spouse.

I mean, like, it sounds like such an impossible task that God would expect us to walk around treating everybody like that. And you'd be right. Because remember, the first rule of the Holy Spirit is that something that we cannot produce by ourselves. That something that the Holy Spirit is closer to God produces in us. Now, with that said, I see that the challenge is not only that we don't have a full grasp of what kindness is, but it's also that we don't fully understand how kindness intersects with our lives and with the world. A couple days ago, my wife mentioned me in this TikTok, and it's like, she's seeing me TikTok, so I don't know, I think she's watching, hang on. And she's sending me TikTok, she's seeing me, I don't watch them, I watch them, it just takes me a little longer because there are too many.

One of them was of, oh, it happens to other people, it's interesting. Okay, anyway, one of them was about these women saying how the world looks when you have, like, a minus four prescription, right? And it's basically, like, everything looks clear, and then, like, there's a silk, and everything looks really blurry. My prescription is not minus four, but all of a sudden, you all got better looking right now because of too many less. It's a joke, it's a joke, you're all beautiful people. Anyway, so, she's sending me TikTok, and then she's like, I think I have, like, the same prescription. She says, in my eyes, like, it even looks worse. And the point I'm trying to make is a lot of times when you have kind of, like, the wrong filter, the wrong lens, things can get distorted.

And I think that's what's happening with kindness. So what I want to do for the next few minutes is I want to kind of try to adjust our prescriptions about what kindness actually looks like. And I want to give you five things of how to see kindness in the world, how to see how the kindness of God works in our lives, and how kindness works in the world that I think is going to help us actually be kinder people. So the first thing is this. We have to see God as a kind God. Again, all of the fruit of the Spirit has their origin in God. And you remember the passage that we just read from Exodus. When God describes himself, God says that he's compassionate and gracious, and that he abounds in hesed, that he abounds in loving kindness.

And before saying that he created the universe, before saying, you know, that he commands the angels, that he's strong and powerful, the first thing that God says is, I abound in loving kindness. The true origin of kindness. And that's why I'm telling you this is because a lot of us have kind of like a broken vision of God. And sometimes we don't know how to reconcile God's holiness and God's sovereignty and God's power and love and justice and kindness. And what ends up happening, and I've heard this preach a lot, is that we make the qualities of God competing with each other. If you've ever heard a sermon kind of like, maybe like a little bit more like traditional, fundamentally, side, you've probably heard a sermon talking about the holiness of God. And some preachers will usually say something like, yes, God is love, but he's also consuming fire.

And the point of trying to make is that God's love, but don't get too comfortable because it's Matthew, right? And I mean, for most of us, kind of like, we don't even know how to reconcile the God of the Old Testament with Jesus. So that we really think that kind of like, you know, God took 400 years off and went to therapy, and then like, Jesus shows up, and he's nice, all of us love it. And a lot of times, we kind of like, even think about that, even now when we pray, when we interact with God, Jesus is the nice one, God is, like, the Father is the holy one. But that's not how God describes himself. So God intrudes himself, and when God intrudes himself, it's a whole other sermon. It's not just God the Father talking, it's God the Father, and the Son, and the Spirit, like, it's the Trinity that is Yahweh.

And the Trinity is describing God's self as full of love and kindness. And then the point I'm trying to make about it is that you have to see God as kind. For many of you, because we think about God as the Father, maybe you've had that experience with your own father. And the first image that you have is probably like a harsh person or like a stern person, not a loving father who's full of kindness. And the best way that you can kind of like flip the script is to see your salvation, what God did in Jesus, this Father sent Jesus. The ultimate evidence of the kindness of God is the cross. Titus chapter 3, starting on verse 26. At one time, we too were foolish, disobedient, deceived, and enslaved by all kinds of passions and pleasures.

We lived in malice and envy, being hated, and hating one another. But when the kindness and love of God, our Savior, appeared, He saved us, not because of righteous things we had done, but because of His mercy. For the writers of the New Testament, if the story of Jesus is true, then God is a kind God. And when you see that, it's kind of like core of who God is, you're going to start understanding, kind of, and the point I'm trying to make is this. We don't have to talk God into being kind. God is naturally kind. The predisposition of God is kindness. God's default setting is kindness. Which then leads to the next question, right? If God's default setting is kindness, then we have been and are the recipients of kindness. So the second, like, adjustment that I want to make for our list is that we have to see ourselves as the recipients of kindness.

Romans chapter 2, verse 1. You, therefore, have no excuse. You will pass judgment on someone else where at whatever point you judge another, you are condemning yourself because you who pass judgment do the same things. Now, we know that that's judgment against us who do such things is based on truth. You're wondering where I'm going with this because it's passing very hard, right? So when you, a mere human being, pass judgment on them and yet do the same things, do you think you will escape that judgment? But let me do this. It says, For do you show contempt for the riches of his kindness, forbearance, and patience, not realizing that God's kindness is intended to lead you to repentance? Well, Paul is saying, Paul is writing to a church that at that point is very divided.

The church of Rome is kind of like these Gentile Roman Christians, and then the Jewish church of Rome had been kicked out by the previous emperor, and then when that emperor dies, the Jewish faction of the church is allowed to come back into Rome. And the Jewish faction of the church was, like, a lot more, like, conservative things, and, you know, the Gentiles were, like, more crazy, and they were, like, fighting all the time and judging one another. And, like, that's part of what Paul is writing about. And Paul is saying, you're judging one another. And he says, you know what's at the core of you judging one another? But you don't realize that God has been kind to you. So you see, you can be unkind to another. You don't have political servants at all, so relax, okay?

But a lot of times when I'm on social media, and I honestly, I pastored in D.C., where I grew up kind of, like, in the conservative evangelicals, and I have friends on all the ends of the spectrum of everything, right? Christ is on both sides. And I see how we treat one another. And I see how we talk about one another. And I see the polls, and I see the things. And I'm like, you realize, and you're showing contempt for the kindness that God has for you. And the reason why I'm telling you this is because Paul is saying there are two things. One is the fact that a lot of times we ignore the kindness that God has for you. Ryan told last week this passage, one of these parables, that basically there's these two servants.

The one servant goes to the king, and he owes you basically billions of dollars, and the king forgives him. And then he walks out, and the other guy owes him, like, a couple thousand bucks, and, like, he tries to choke the guy, right? And part of what Jesus gave me is, like, that's how we act a lot of times. That we don't, we fail to comprehend what God has done for us, and then we cannot extend the same thing to our people. So that's part of what's going on. But the other part is that a lot of us actually don't think that anybody has ever been kind to us. Because for some of us, we haven't experienced that. That some of us have actually had tough lives and being raised by rough people and being involved in a world where hardiness is how you survive,

where hardiness is how you get ahead, where you have to be strong, where you have to be strong, where you have to put up, like, you know, a strong core, or you get rumpled over. So it kind of does a desperately foreign thing. And we see salvation, it's very Christian, because Christians are like this. And we see salvation as kind of like, okay, I don't want to say anything heretical, so then you can, like, you know, correct me after, if you want. But, like, we see salvation almost like something that God doesn't really want to do. But he's like, fine, okay? Jesus, I, for you, I think you're good for nothing, but because of my obligations to my son, I'm going to forgive you and let you into heaven. Like, that's a lot of times that we think, like, so God is in this time, God is this guy that merely tolerates us.

And because we're believing in Jesus, we're kind of like, man, they're making this through. But, like, no, once we get to heaven, we're going to be kind of like Harry Potter, like, living under the stairs because guys are really kind to us. And what Paul is saying, no, no, no, no, is you've been saved. You've believed in Jesus, like, God has shown you his kindness. God, the Father, sent the Son. God has been kind to you. You've experienced kindness. If you're in this room right now, God has shown you his kindness. And the more that we remind ourselves of that, the more, like, you know why we celebrate communion? Because somebody has to remind you that God has been kind to you. Somebody pulls out a little cup and says, you know, pulls out the, you guys should do that, right?

Like, okay. Somebody pulls out the little wafer thing that always breaks, right? And tells you why. It is the body of Christ broken for you. And a lot of times we think about it in general. It's the body of Christ broken for the world. One of my favorite things before the pandemic when, like, we weren't afraid of the church church. I wouldn't do the little thing. I would get, like, a cup and, like, a piece of, like, pita bread. By the way, pita bread from Cava is, like, the best thing. Okay, that's the way to go. Anyways, we get a piece of pita bread, and I'll break it, and we'll, like, dip it in the cup. And I would make people come forward, and I would look at them in the eye. I would tell them, Christ broke his body for you.

And the more that you remind yourself, the more that you're exposed to that, the more that you remember that God's been kind to you. It's only that you see God as kind, but that you see that you've experienced kindness in your life. All of a sudden, sharing kindness becomes a little bit easier. Next thing is this. You have to see kindness not as a privilege that people have to earn, but as a default closer towards the world. Okay? And what I mean by that is that a lot of times when we think is, okay, I don't have to be disrespectful to people. You know, like, I don't have to be rude, but I also don't have to be rude, right? I don't have to go out of my way, right? Like, if I don't cut you over, and if I don't punch you in the face, we're good, right?

And what you see here, it's kind of like, yo, no, no, no, no. Actually, your default position is guys are kind of showing you kindness, and how could you not spill that kindness out into the world in every single opportunity that you have? The next thing is this. We have to see kindness not as a weakness, but as a strength. Okay? Matthew chapter 5. I'm going to compress everything you have in, like, five minutes, three, five more minutes. David is the one that has, like, a machete, like, ready to, like, go around if I get too long. Okay. Matthew chapter 5, verse 38. You have heard what it was said, eyes for eye and tooth for tooth, as I told you, not a responsible person. If anyone slaps in the right cheek, turn in the other cheek also.

And if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, hand over your coat as well. If anyone wants you to go one mile, go with them two miles. Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you. This is a very, very famous passage, but a lot of times, we read this passage, we think that what Jesus is saying is basically, you just have to be nice to people, right? And I've heard so many things people say, listen, that eyes for a nice thing, that, like, turn the other cheek thing, like, that's not for me. Like, I'll do it once a second time. You know, you guys need friends, right? Like, there's a hip-hop artist that says, like, you know, I love Jesus, but I got a man.

So, it's basically, like, it's a mess with me, but, like, you're going to get it back. In the Asian culture, there was a toilet paper, okay? I'm going somewhere with this. And because there wasn't toilet paper, your toilet paper was your left hand, okay? That's just kind of, like, what you used, right? And then you could wash it, whatever, but the left hand was seen as this very, like, dirty thing that nobody could touch. You would never offer anybody your left hand. You would not touch anybody with your left hand. If you're a lefty, I'm sorry about it, okay? But anyway, so that was kind of, like, how that worked. Every interaction that you had was with your right hand. When you punch somebody, you would punch somebody with your right hand. Touching anything with your left hand was seen as the most disgusting, awful thing that you did.

What you're saying is, like, if somebody punches you, what are they going to punch you? Usually with their right hand, it's going to hit you. And then he says, if you offer them the other cheek, what hand do they have to use to hit you? And who moves bad when somebody's doing, like, the most disgusting, gross thing? The guy offering the other cheek or the guy doing the punching? In Asian culture, if you're going to, like, go back to, like, the Levitical laws, you could sue people, like, if they owe you money, you could sue them. But there was a rule that you could never take off the shirt off their back. You can say you can take everything, you can take their coat, but you cannot let people make it. You cannot take the shirt off their back.

That was seen as an injustice. So you're saying, if somebody takes your clothes, let's say, you're in your shirt. Who looks bad when it's the other person, the one that's making the law? And one of the Roman laws, when the Roman Empire time, like, occupies most of the world, was that any Roman soldier could take any person, if they were tired, who could take a person, and force them to carry their backpack for one mile. And only one mile. You could not force a random person to walk more than one mile with your star. And you could say, if somebody forced you to walk a mile for them, what's it? Who's seen as an unjust person? Is it the silly person that walks the extra mile, or is it the Roman soldier that is now abusing his power,

and forcing the person to walk? Do you understand what I'm saying? That passage, what Jesus is saying is, actually, kindness is not weakness. Kindness is strength. Because kindness exposes the wickedness of the other side. Kindness exposes the evil of the other side. Kindness shows you think they're wrong. Which, basically, the final point is this. You know, it's not like we have to seek kindness as weakness, but as strength. But then, though, we have to seek kindness as an act of resistance. Romans chapter 12, verse 13 says, Bless those who persecute you, bless them, and not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice, mourn with those who mourn. Live in harmony with one another, do not be proud, do not be willing, especially with people of opposition, do not be conceited. And then, listen to this, verse 17.

Do not repay anyone evil for evil. Be careful to the way it's right in the eyes of everyone. If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone. Do not take revenge, my dear friends. But leave room for God's prosperity, if it is mine to avenge, I will repay to the Lord. On the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him, if he's thirsty, give him something to drink. In doing this process, you will hit burning coals on his head. Do not overcome evil by evil, but overcome evil with good. And, I'm not putting this in all possible, but the point that Paul is saying is this. You know how, what's the most effective way of fighting evil?

And, you know what you are violating, it's exposing evil and the way you should expose that the other side is evil is how? It's by doing good. One of the most revolutionary things about Jesus dying on the cross, he said, Jesus is exposing. This is what you do to people. If you want to keep going in the way of religion, if you want to keep going in the way of the Roman Empire, you end up stripping people naked and hanging, hanging, hanging from a pole. Jesus is exposing publicly the powers and the principalities, the evil of the world, by laying down his life. Paul is saying the best way of fighting the evil in the world is by showing kindness. Do you know that phrase, random acts of kindness, like I did a little bit of research of where it came from?

And there's basically two stories that are competing. And at the core of both stories, it was that it started in the 90s, and it started at a time where, particularly in California, there was a lot of violence going on. And one of the common phrases that were shown in the news is, another random acts of violence, another senseless act of cruelty. So, independently, at least that's what you found on the internet, like these college professors started kind of giving these lectures on kindness and showing people to fight the random acts of violence with random acts of kindness. There's this other woman that's kind of like a children's book writer that starts saying the same, but literally writes a book called Random Kindness and Senseless Acts of Lust, a book for children. And eventually, kind of like, people start catching up with this, and they even start the nonprofit organization and all that.

And now on February 17th, every year, that's like the random acts of kindness thing, right? So, if you're on a Starbucks, show up on February 17th, maybe somebody will buy you one, right? What I'm fascinated by this story is that this story is fundamentally a story about what? It's a story about resistance. It's a story about a world where violence and cruelty has become so prevalent that people start thinking, well, what if we don't have to be more violent and get at each other's terms? Or maybe, like, our kindness can, like, show a different way to live. There's this, a couple years ago, I was reading a book by John Tyson, who's a pastor, and he was actually referencing another book by Silly Jansi. And in this Silly Jansi book, Silly Jansi tells the story of Ernest Gordon.

We have a couple pictures of him. And Gordon was a prisoner of war, PW, during World War II that was captured by the Japanese. And Silly Jansi even writes a book about his life called Miracle in the River Kauai. And he basically gets captured by the Japanese, and he's part of the people that are basically forced labor to build the Kauai River Bridge. And that's, like, historically, like, an incredibly risky, violent thing. Some numbers say that almost, like, 80,000 people died building that bridge. And in the internment camp in which they were, Japanese soldiers were so cruel to them that what he tells them the story is that basically everybody that was in the camp also started becoming cruel to one another. And that was a very kind of, like, you know, a harsh place where everybody was looking out for themselves, and everybody, you know, was fighting against one another and kind of, like, hated each other because of their harsh conditions they had experienced.

And then he tells a story that changed that, and the story is that one day, a shovel went missing. And the Japanese soldiers kind of like come and say, you were missing a shovel, and they're basically saying, the shovel has to appear, and if the shovel doesn't appear, we're going to kill everybody in the camp right now. And somebody steps up and says, I keep the shovel, and they shoot that person. They killed him. That night, the Japanese soldiers are counting the inventory again and realize they had miscounted, and the shovel was there. So somebody had offered up their life so that the rest of the camp would survive. And they're not going to write to you, but that fundamentally changed the spirit of the camp. That the rest of the prisoners were so moved by these acts of kindness that they changed.

Hey, remember, he says this, death was still with us. No doubt about that. But we were slowly being freed from a destructive grip. We were seeing for ourselves the sharp contrast between the forces that made for life and death. Selfishness, hatred, envy, jealousy, greed, self-indulgence, laziness, and pride were anti-life. Love, heroism, self-sacrifice, sympathy, mercy, integrity, and creative space on the other hand were the essence of life. Turning mere existence into living, turning mere existence into living in an extraordinary space. These were the gifts of God to men. Too, there was hatred. There was also love. There was death. There was also life. God had not left us. He was with us, calling us to live the life of divine fellowship. What changed the spirits of that camp. It wasn't violence. It wasn't guilt. It was kindness.

This random person performs the greatest kindness that he can perform, which is what? To lay down life. Lay down his life. For the rest of the people of the camp. And that act of kindness, transforming this place that's ruled by death and evil and darkness and hatred. The kingdom of God starts to break out. First, what is the most significant thing that you can do? The most significant act of persistence and transformation against a world that's becoming increasingly cruel and divided. It's to live a life of kindness. Or is that how the light breaks? Or is that what God wants to do? Because God has shown the world his kindness by giving of his heart. So let's receive that kindness. Let's share it with your prayer with me. God, we come before you today. And my prayer this morning is that you would open our eyes to the depth of the kindness that we've received from you.

That every line in your form would be, I would be convictive of how kind you think about us. And that your spirit would use that to transform us into people of kindness. In the name of your service. Amen.
