Exercising Patience
2022-07-04
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gAP3A8q0OW4

Well, good morning, church. Thanks so much for hanging out with us on this holiday weekend. I know for many of you, it was a sacrifice to get here, and it was a sacrifice worth making for the Lord. I am personally thankful for our country, thankful for the people who have worked hard and sacrificed to maintain it and to keep it safe. However, the older I get and the more I follow Jesus, the more I realize that it is primary for the follower of Jesus to put their allegiance in the kingdom of God first over any earthly nation. And so I celebrate today and thankful for the country that God has given us, but even more thankful for the kingdom of God that he is building through his church, and that he will return to set up once and for all, wipe away every tear from our eyes.

There will be no more mourning and no more pain, no more war sacrifice. So that's what our hope is in this morning. And the church, the big C church and local congregations and Sunday morning services are set up to remind us of these things in the midst of a broken world, a fallen world, where we gather together as believers to fellowship, to sing truth together, to hear from God's word together, to break bread together, we do all of those things to remind us of these truths. However, in the American church, if I'm being honest, me personally, we tend to elevate the sermon, the individual monologue, above some of the other elements. And that was no more apparent to me than this week, yesterday morning, when I got a text from Dol Pazmino, a brother in Christ who I love and am thankful for, telling me that he had COVID.

And instead of my primary concern being for him, my primary concern, confessing sin to you, was that you guys might have to listen to a bad sermon today. And I think that reveals a couple things about my heart. One, I think that reveals some identity issues that I have to work through, where I feel like I need to be seen as a halfway decent communicator, right? Like, I don't want to come up here and be bad at communicating, but also that reveals an identity issue in my heart. It also reveals to me, at least personally, that I have an overemphasis of the 30-minute monologue on Sunday morning to the importance of the health of the overall church. Because the gates of hell are not going to prevail against God's church, whether I preach a bad sermon on a Sunday or not.

So, all that being said, I did spend a significant amount of time yesterday with the Lord and my computer. And I do believe that I have some encouraging things for us this morning. But it's not polished. It's probably not the greatest thing that you've ever heard. And I think that that's a good thing, that we can learn this morning. That the Sunday morning monologue is not the primary thing that God wants to use to build his church. It's individual believers gathering together as a body using the gifts that he has given them through his Holy Spirit to be conformed to the image of Christ and to do the work of the kingdom in our city. So, let's pray. I will give what I hope to be an encouraging word. And ultimately, God is going to get glory through whatever happens this morning.

Father, we are so thankful for the church. We are thankful for the body of believers that you have gathered together here at Canvas and in local churches all over the city of Winchester. That are going to preach the gospel. That are going to use the gifts to serve one another in the community. That are going to preach your truth. Sing your truth. That are going to eat your body broken for us and drink your blood shed for us to remind us that there is a hope far greater than the nation of America. God, may you get glory through this service. May you conform us into your image for your glory. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know if you feel this, but I feel that oftentimes the culture that I live in is dictated by this five-inch brick of, you know, whatever materials this phone is made out of.

I would say iPhone, but I know some of you people out there don't know what's good and you have an Android. That's okay. Just kidding.

So much of our culture is dictated by the information, the content that we consume on a daily basis, and I find myself grabbing this phone so often first thing in the morning. A couple weeks ago, I remember first thing in the morning grabbing my phone, and it's super emotionally healthy to check your email at 6.30 in the morning. Just in case anybody was wondering, it's a good thing to do for your soul to check your email at 6.30 in the morning. And so I was checking my email in bed at 6.30 in the morning, and I got an email notification from this thing I signed up for years ago called 50-50 Friday. This gives you a bunch of deals, right? Deals on deals. And I haven't used it in multiple years, but I opened up my email, and there was a deal for a golf outing, which you guys have found out by now that I like golf.

And so it was like three rounds of golf for like $25, but there was like a minimum offer of the amount that they could have. And so I was like, I got to get it. Click on it. Go to pay for it. And like I can see them. It's like got a timer. There was 25 when I opened it, and there was like 21. I'm like trying to put in my information. I'm like, if I don't get this cheap golf, I'm going to be mad, right? This is the thing that's happening in my heart at 6.30 in the morning. I go to pay, and I'm like, perfect. I'm going to use Apple Pay. It'll take me 10 seconds, and it's done. Guess who forgot to set up Apple Pay when he was setting up his new iPhone?

Marissa's thought. It's Marissa's thought. I forgot to set up Apple Pay, so then I'm mad that Apple Pay is not like immediately. And I'm like, that's fine. I probably got my credit card saved, right? So I auto-fill the credit card. Guess what? The credit card's out of date. And like meanwhile, the things are just ticking down and ticking down and ticking down. I'm like, I'm not going to get the cheap golf because I was too lazy to set up Apple Pay, and now all of this is happening at once, and I was frustrated in my bed at 6.30 in the morning. Why? Because I live in a culture of instant gratification. I live in a culture where I can pretty much get what I want the moment that I want to get it. And then I moved from, I finally got it.

Don't worry. I got the cheap golf. It should be in the mail any time. But I'm annoyed that I don't have the instant gratification that I want. And then I open up my Twitter account to find out that the pastor that I look up to and admire had some sexual misconduct allegations. And that day, every sermon that he had ever preached had been wiped from the Internet. Nothing that he has ever said about Jesus exists anymore on the Internet. Because not only do we live in a culture of instant gratification, we live in a cancel culture where if you do one thing wrong, if you step on the wrong, I'm not downplaying sexual misconduct. I'm saying he didn't even have time for a trial. He didn't have time for allegations. It was everything was gone.

You guys felt cancel culture at all? Anybody? Felt like you say the one wrong thing and you're gone forever. There's no grace. We live in a culture of instant gratification and a cancel culture. And I think, as I studied patience, Christian patience, yesterday, I realized that it might be a difficult culture for us to create the fruit, for the Holy Spirit to create the fruit of patience in our lives. Because ultimately, patience is about two main things. Christian patience is about extending grace to difficult people and about having endurance in difficult circumstances. And if patience is about extending grace to difficult people, that flies in the face of cancel culture that says the moment somebody steps on your toes, the moment somebody sends you or says the wrong thing the wrong way, you can cut them out of your lives forever.

Or a culture of instant gratification where we get everything that we want the moment that we want it. So, no wonder Paul says that we need the Holy Spirit to produce patience in our life. We live in a life where it's not naturally created in our hearts and minds. So, we're dependent on the Holy Spirit to produce this kind of patience in our life that allows us to extend grace to difficult people and to have endurance in difficult circumstances. So, if you have your Bible, we're going to kind of have a jumping off passage in James chapter 5, and we'll read a bunch of Scripture. But I really just want to unpack those two ideas of patience. I think that Christian patience really is about sending grace to difficult people and about enduring difficult circumstances.

We, if you've been around campus for a while, you know we preach through the book of James not too long ago. And it's funny, this passage about patience was one that we kind of tacked on to the end of the message. We really didn't get much time to unpack it, so I'm thankful that we have the time now. So, James chapter 5, starting in verse 7, it says, Dear brothers and sisters, be patient, be patient as you wait for the Lord's return. Consider the farmer who patiently waits for the rain in the fall and in the spring. They eagerly look for the valuable harvest to ripen. You too must be patient. Take courage, for the coming of the Lord is near. And then he moves on to his application. If you're going to be a patient person, if you are going to have patience in your life, what does it look like?

Verse 9, don't grumble about each other, brothers and sisters, or you will be judged. For look, the judge is standing at the door. So I think the first aspect of Christian patience that James says is that if you're going to have patience, you've got to have grace for difficult people. He says be a people of patience. Allow the Lord to produce patience in your life. And if you're going to be a patient person, don't grumble with your brothers and sisters who are difficult. See, James knows that we will regularly encounter difficult people in our lives. Or people that aren't usually difficult in our lives that we love and are thankful for, for whatever reason, become difficult when they're tired or hungry or grumpy or any of those things. Right? James knows that there's an enemy to patience, which is other people.

Anybody feel that? Anybody feel that the enemy to your patience is the people in your life? I feel that. Patience. And patience is usually easier with people that we like. Right? Like there's a natural. So I think sometimes we give ourselves credit. We call ourselves patient people because we're patient with the people that we like. That doesn't count. I love how I'm reading this book called Nice by Sharon Miller, and she puts it this way, that niceness or friendship, relationship, makes it all the more likely that we will forgive misbehavior or deny it altogether. So if you're in here and you're patient with people that you love, I'm happy for you. That doesn't count. It counts a little bit, but not all the way. Right? And it's also easier for us to have patience with difficult people when we're well-rested and when we're in a healthy emotional and physical state.

Would you agree with me? It's easier to have patience when you're in a good head space, when you're in a good emotional space. And one of the reasons I can know this and believe this is because I have spent a lot of time with many of you and your children. For instance, Michelle oftentimes brings Meadow and sometimes Micah into the office while we work together in one space. And I have a lot of patience for Meadow and Micah. You know why? I don't live with them. I wasn't up until 3 o'clock in the morning with a crying baby who puked all over me. I wasn't there at 5 a.m. when they came in with the ear infection. Like, I don't have kids yet, and so I wake up pretty much almost always in a healthy emotional and physical state.

And so I can go over to the Smith's house at 6 p.m. when they've been up with the kids since 5 a.m., gone to work, picked them up from school, got there, and the kids are running around like a mess. And I can have an hour's worth of patience towards their children because I didn't have to deal with any of it. And I get to go home at the end of the night. But the type of patience that James is asking us to have is not the easy kind that we can have when we're emotionally or physically healthy or with people that we like. He's asking us to have the same patience that Jesus Christ had to you and I. When we were the most difficult of people, Jesus was patient with us. Christ, Christian patience, the kind that the fruit of the Spirit requires, is the kind of patience that is extended even to the worst people

in the most difficult circumstances. This is the type of patience that the Holy Spirit wants to produce in you and I. Anybody can have patience for people they like when they're in a healthy emotional and physical state. It's the type of patience that is extended to the most difficult people in the worst of times. Now, disclaimer, I've heard this same argument made. Preachers have encouraged people to stay in unhealthy situations for the sake of patience. Not telling you to put yourself in dangerous situations and remain in dangerous situations. You can have patience while getting yourself into a safe place. But this kind of patience that Christians are called to, I think if we're honest, we're far more eager to receive it than we are to extend it to others. Think about patience, we think about the unforgiving servant in Matthew 18, this parable that Jesus teaches.

It's got a greater meaning, but I think there's an application for patience here. He says this in Matthew 18, The kingdom of heaven can be compared to a king who decided to bring his accounts up to date with his servants, who had borrowed money from him. In the process, one of his debtors was brought in who owed millions of dollars. As I've heard some scholars say, it could be up to a billion dollars that he could not pay. So his master ordered that he be sold along with his wife and his children and everything he owed to pay the debt. But the man fell down before his master and begged him, please be what? Be patient with me and I will pay it all. All I need is a little bit of time. You know, I only have like a few dollars, but give me a couple months and I will have millions.

I promise you, I can do it. Be patient with me and I will pay it all. Then this master was filled with pity for him and released him. And not only did he extend patience to him, he extended grace to him. He forgave his debt. Unmerited kindness. But when the man left the king, he went to a fellow servant who owed him a few thousand dollars. He grabbed him by the throat and demanded instant payment. See, the man was asking for patience, but he didn't need patience. He needed a miracle. This was an unforgivable amount of debt. And he was thinking, you know what? All I need is a little bit of patience. He painted his situation in a far less difficult light. Any of us ever do that with God? God, I just, you know, you forgive me a little bit, but I'm a pretty good person.

I do a lot of good things. I just need a little bit of patience. See, I think sometimes we don't have patience for other people because we are far underqualified to realize how patient God has been with us. We are in millions of dollars of debt to the Lord, and we are going into his presence saying, I just need a little patience, just a little forgiveness. I haven't been that bad. I haven't done that many things. I haven't fallen that short of your standard. And if that is our perspective about our relationship between us and God, no wonder we have less patience for the people that sin against us because we far underestimate how much we have sinned against God. We are so eager to receive the patience of the Lord and so stingy to extend it.

Once he received not just patience but grace, he went out and immediately treated his fellow servant with zero patience for grace. How often do we lack patience with difficult people because in that moment we forget how patient God has been to us. One of our, many of our favorite characters in the Bible, the Apostle Paul, wrote most of the New Testament. God's saving the Apostle Paul was a demonstration for all of us for the rest of time to understand how patient God is. It says this in 1 Timothy. Paul says, This is a trustworthy saying and everyone should accept it. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners and I am the worst of them all. But God have mercy on me. Why? So that Christ Jesus could use me, Paul, as a prime example of his great patience with even the worst sinners.

So that others will realize that they too can believe in him and receive eternal life. Paul says, I murdered Christians. Literally, I was the prime enemy of the kingdom of God in Rome right after Jesus was crucified and resurrected. I was doing the absolute worst possible things I could do in the face of God. And he saved me, not just to save me, but to show you how patient that he is. And I think oftentimes we lose sight of how patient God is. We can extend patience to difficult people because God has been far more patient with us when we were far more difficult towards him. The character of God is patient. This is what God says about himself to Moses in Exodus 34, verses 6 and 7. God is showing himself. You guys remember the story, right, where Moses wants to see God.

And God's like, yeah, that's not going to work out because you'll just evaporate. But I'll stick you in this cave and you face backwards and I'll like breeze past you and it'll be awesome and you'll get some of me. And this is the story. And God's breezing past Moses in the cave. And this is what he tells Moses is true about himself. He says, the Lord, the Lord, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, God is patient, abounding in love and faithfulness, maintaining love to thousands and forgiving wickedness, rebellion, and sin. This is what God says is true about himself. He is patient, slow to anger, abounding in love towards difficult people.

And just in case you attempted to kind of not believe how patient God is, read the Old Testament. The Old Testament is God proving that what he said to Moses about himself is true generation after generation of the nation of Israel turning their back on him. Just read the book of Judges. The book of Judges is chapter after chapter saying that God's people whom he called out, delivered from slavery, said, you know what? We're just going to do things the way that we want to do. And then it doesn't work. And their lives are ruined. And a new person comes and becomes in charge and says, you know what? Let's just keep doing things the way that we're doing it and keep rebelling against God. And over and over and over again, God delivers them from their wicked rebellion.

They're pushed back into slavery and he redeems them back, gives them his law again, over and over and over again. God is a patient God. God is patient to the most difficult people in the worst circumstances. And this is the type of patience that he asks of us. He wants the Holy Spirit to produce this type of patience in our life that extends grace to the most difficult people. In the worst situations, I think the application question we can ask for ourselves in this section is, how does God's level of patience towards you impact your level of patience towards other people? Are you receiving the fullness of the patience of God? Are you understanding how much rebellion that God has overcome through his patience to bring about just to get us Jesus? Like that in and of itself, before he shows any patience to you individually for all of your sins and mess ups and failures and brokenness,

like just the amount of patience he had with the nation of Israel to deliver Jesus to us. He was almost done with them at Moses' time. They make the golden calf, right? They're like, as soon as God brings them out of Egypt, they're like, we don't like this food that he's giving us. We'd rather have the watermelons that we had when we were in slavery. So let's just go back to slavery. And God's like, cool, awesome. Well, Moses, come up here. I'll give you the law. And then maybe the people will change their mind. And before Moses even gets down the mountain, they've already made a golden calf, and they're bowing down and worshiping a cow. And God's like, all right, I'm done. You guys can go to the promised land without me. Moses says that you said you're patient.

You said you're slow to anger, bounding and steadfast love. And God's like, oh, that's right. I did say that. I did say that. And I am, and I will be patient with you. How patient God was with the nation of Israel. And all of that patience was to bring us Jesus at the right time, in the right place, so that we might receive salvation. How does God's level of patience towards us impact our level of patience towards one another? That's a tough question that I have been wrestling with ever since yesterday morning. Let's continue to wrestle with that thought. And unfortunately, if you found this aspect of patience difficult, it only gets worse. Because people can be avoided, right? Like difficult people, we can be avoided. We can avoid difficult people, but oftentimes we can't get out of difficult circumstances.

And that's the second aspect of Christian patience. Christian patience is not only about extending grace to difficult people, but it's about enduring difficult circumstances. Look what James says as he's giving this diatribe on patience. He says in verse 10, for example, for examples of patience in suffering, look at the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. We give honor to those who endure patiently under suffering. For instance, you know about Job, a man of great endurance. You can see how the Lord was kind to him at the end, for the Lord is full of tenderness and mercy. So not only does James say patience is about not grumbling with difficult people, extending grace to difficult people, but it's about enduring difficult circumstances. And he gives two examples. First, the prophets. I was reading something a couple weeks ago, and they said, do you realize that like 99% of the Scriptures were written by people who were suffering?

The prophets were suffering. Like God told them to go tell their people all of the judgment that they were going to have. Most of the prophets were rejected by their people. Nobody wanted to listen to the sermons that they were preaching. They were in suffering and difficulty. And the 1% of the Bible that was written by somebody who wasn't suffering is the most depressing book in all of Scripture. It's Ecclesiastes. Solomon had all of the money, all of the wealth, all of the resources, and he writes the depressing book. Because he wrote it from an earthly perspective. Meanwhile, the prophets, they have hope for the future. They know who God is and what he's like, and so they can endure suffering because they know there's a hope that's coming on the other side. Meanwhile, Solomon, who doesn't have to endure suffering, rather he gets to enjoy the beauty and all of the good gifts of God.

He's depressed in the middle of all of it because he says, if this is all there is, if all I get is sex, money, drugs, rock and roll, if this is all I get, this stinks. He says, woe is me, right? Like, I'm just like, I'm just going to eat, drink, and have a good time, and then die. And I'll go back to dust, and the earth will swallow me up. It's a really encouraging book of the Bible. I read it this week. But the prophets who are in the midst of suffering, the opposite experience of Solomon, endure patiently because they know who God is, and they know what God's promised to do. The same is true for Job. Those of you who grew up in Sunday school, you've heard the story of Job. Job had everything, and then everything was taken away from him with no explanation, no warning, no understanding of anything.

And yet, through the most difficult circumstances, Job patiently endured. Why? Because he knew God. He knew God. He knew who God is. He knew what God is like. He knows that God is a patient God, slow to anger, abounding in love. He knows the promises that God has made for the future. And so there's a distinct difference between the type of patience that somebody has who knows God, who's experienced the great patience of God, who knows the promise of the future. There's a difference in the type of patience that we can carry through difficult circumstances if we're confident in who God is and what he's done and what he promised to do versus the person who's not. We're not really quite sure. Do you see this in the difference between Job's response and Job's wife's response?

So Job loses everything. God takes everything away from him. All his kids, all of his wealth, everything. His health. Job stood up and he tore his robe in grief. He's not ignoring pain or sadness or difficulties. He's feeling it. He shaved his head. He fell to the ground and he worshipped. And he said this, I came naked from my mother's womb and I will be naked when I leave. The Lord gave me what I had and the Lord has taken it away. Praise the name of the Lord. That response comes from a guy who knows God, knows what he's like and knows what he's promised to do. Versus Job's wife who's wrestling, who's struggling, who's not sure if she quite knows God or believes what he says. He says this, Job scraped his skin with a piece of broken pottery.

I thought about taking that out, but I figured it would be a nice comedic release here. Job was just like so struggling. He's scraping his skin with a piece of broken pottery as he sat among the ashes and his wife said to him, Are you still trying to maintain your integrity? Curse God and die. This is the difference between somebody who's confident in who God is and what he's done and what he's promised to do versus somebody who thinks this is all there is. What we had, the stuff that we had, the wealth and the kids and everything, that's all there was and now it's gone. So what is God going to do for us? The ability to patiently endure suffering that the prophets and that Job had came from their understanding of who God is,

that he's patient and their confidence in what he's promised to do, that he is coming back to restore the difficult circumstances of this life. So, Christian, follower of Jesus, you and I, we live in a broken world, destined for restoration but not yet there. We will experience tremendous pain and difficulty. We will interact with extremely difficult people.

However, the Holy Spirit can produce patience in us. Patience through difficult circumstances and patience with difficult people because we know God. We know who he is. He's been patient to us. He's been sending grace to us. And Jesus, our perfect example, our great high priest, endured the most difficult of circumstances for you and for I. To give us hope and a future so that we can endure difficult circumstances. If you're in here and you're not really sure where you're at with Jesus or if you're a follower of Jesus, maybe you're in that spot where Job's wife was, wrestling, dealing with difficult people and difficult circumstances, not really sure if God is who he says he is. Extending grace to difficult people and enduring difficult circumstances for you becomes a lot more doable if you acknowledge the patience of God in your life.

If you receive God's patience towards you, his kindness towards you, and if you accept by faith the future promise that he is secured through you by the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ.

It's a decision away. Patience is a decision away. Receive the Lord's patience and kindness to you because at some point it ends. See, for you good Bible scholars out here, you might have realized that I left off half of Exodus 34 when I read it. There's a little bit left. It says this, Exodus 34, 67, The Lord, the Lord, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, maintaining love to the thousands, and forgiving wickedness, rebellion, and sin. But I do not excuse the guilty. I lay the sins of the parents upon their children and their grandchildren. The entire family is affected, even children in the third and fourth generations. God is a patient God who constantly begs us to come into his presence and to receive his patience. But for those of us that refuse, and refuse, and refuse, and refuse,

one day we will feel the weight of the judgment of God, not because he wasn't patient with us, but because we rejected that patience. So if you're here and you haven't received the patience of God in your life through the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus, what are you waiting on? God is extending that patience to you, that forgiveness to you, that promise of a future hope for you, that thing that Dave talked about this morning. You guys look at fireworks and we get excited about the explosions and the celebration. It's going to be far, far greater when Christ Jesus returns, riding on the clouds, coming to wipe away every tear from our eyes. There will be no more mourning, no more pain, no more sickness. Here he is helping me, please. She found Revelation 1, verse 7, so at least she's got good theology.

So, if that's you, if you're here and you're not sure where you're at with Jesus, I'd encourage you to talk to me, talk to Dave, talk to one of our leaders, or your friend that you came with. And for all of us, patience is not going to come by me giving you a couple practical tips of how to be more emotionally healthy or present. Those things are good and fine. But the patience that Paul wants for us, the patience that Paul describes in the fruit of the Spirit, is the perfect patience of Christ, and no practical tip is going to get that for you. You've got to spend time with the Lord. You've got to allow the Holy Spirit to produce that type of fruit in you. It won't come through implementing a few practical strategies, but rather through knowing Jesus and seeking to become more like him.

So, we're going to transition here in a few minutes to a time of communion. And as we do that, I really thought the best way for us to end our time this morning would be to meditate on a passage of Scripture that I think summarizes perfectly both of these principles of patience in the life of Jesus. That Jesus is the source of true, genuine patience. That Jesus perfectly extends grace to difficult people. And that Jesus perfectly endures difficult circumstances at the end of his life. We read this in Luke. Then the entire council took Jesus to Pilate, the Roman governor, and they began to state their case. This man has been leading our people astray by telling them not to pay their taxes to the Roman government. Not true. And by claiming that he is the Messiah, a king.

True. So, Pilate asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus replied, You have said it. Pilate turned to the leading priests and to the crowd and said, I find nothing wrong with this man. He's innocent. But his people, the people that were supposed to be his family, they became insistent. He is causing riots by his teaching wherever he goes, all over Judea, from Galilee into Jerusalem. Meanwhile, the leading priests and the teachers of the religious law stood there shouting their accusations. Then Herod and his soldiers began mocking and ridiculing Jesus' difficult people. Finally, they put a royal robe on him and sent him back to Pilate. Then Pilate called together his leading priests and other religious leaders along with the people. He announced his verdict. You brought this man to me, accusing him of leading a revolt.

I have examined him thoroughly on this point in your presence, and I find him innocent. Herod came to the same conclusion, and they sent him back to us. Nothing this man has done calls for the death penalty. So I will have him flogged, and I will release him. Then a roar rose from the crowd, and with one voice they shouted, Kill him and release Barabbas. Difficult people. Barabbas was a prisoner who had taken part in an insurrection against the government and had murdered people. Meanwhile, Jesus was innocent, and Pilate argued with them because he wants to release Jesus. But they kept on shouting, Crucify him! Crucify him! Difficult people. For the third time, he demanded, Why? What crime has he committed? I have found no reason to sentence him to death. So I will have him flogged, and then I will release him.

But the mob shouted louder and louder, demanding that Jesus be crucified. And their voices prevailed. Difficult people. Two others, both criminals, were let out to be executed with him. And when they came to the place called the skull, they nailed him to the cross. Difficult circumstances.

The criminals were there also crucified, one on his right and one on his left. Jesus, in the midst of the most difficult circumstances, surrounded by some of the most difficult people that you could ever imagine, sets this, with patience. Forgive them, for they don't know what they're doing. This is our God. Patiently enduring difficult circumstances. And patiently extending grace to difficult people. Do you want to have patience? Do you want to have patience? Do you want to have patience? Read about the promises of Jesus for your life. Do you want to have patience? Remember how patient God has been to you.

How patient he's been to your friends and family as he awaits his return while he will restore everything to his rightful place. Let's pray. Let's pray. Father, we love you and we thank you for your patience and for your grace to us.

God, we want to be a people that manifest that same type of patience to the difficult people in our life that endure with patience the difficult circumstances that we are faced with. Not because we have some inner strength, not because we have some practical tips that are going to get us through difficult circumstances, but because we know you. We're confident in your patience towards us and we're confident in your promise for the future. And so, we patiently endure difficult circumstances. We patiently extend grace to difficult people. All with the hope that more people would receive your patience, that more people would come into the family of God, sit at the table of the kingdom of God for your glory and for our good. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen.
