Bounded Goodness
2022-07-18
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yxHajjNtVOI

Well, good morning, church. Thanks so much for joining us this morning. Excited to continue our series that we have been going through, the spiritual fruit in Galatians chapter 5. And, man, Donovan, I believe that you heard correctly from the Lord because that song, the chorus of that song literally is the outline of my message. And so maybe I should just not preach and we should just keep singing. But since I'm contractually obligated, I will. I'll give the message and then we might have to run that one back again at the end. But we've been in this series through the spiritual fruit. And it's important that we keep reminding ourselves of that beginning message. At the beginning of this series, we said that it's really the central idea behind this entire passage in Galatians chapter 5 is that illustration of fruits.

That Paul is trying to make it very clear to believers that you can't do this thing on your own. You can't be patient and kind and gentle. You can't have all of these characteristics manifested in your life on your own. Rather, it is you abiding in Jesus. And he is the source, the giver of all of these things. He is the perfect manifestation of all of these things. And it's when we root ourselves in who Jesus is that these fruits are produced in our life. And so each time as we look at each individual fruit, it's just important that we remember that this isn't something that we kind of white-knuckle ourselves into being a more loving person or a more patient person, but that we regularly come back to the foot of the cross. Remember who Jesus is.

Remember what he's done for us. And allow him to produce that from the inside out. So let me pray, and then we'll hop into this week's characteristic, which is goodness. Father, we thank you for this opportunity that we have to gather together this morning to remember your goodness, to try and wrap our human brains around a concept that is far too great for us to understand. God, may you give us wisdom to understand the fullness of your goodness, what it means for us in a broken world. May we wrestle with your goodness even as we struggle to see it in the brokenness of a sinful world. Holy Spirit, we need to hear from you this morning. We do not need to hear from me. And so, God, I often pray that in the same way that people heard Peter's first sermon in their own dialects and languages,

that this morning your Holy Spirit would speak individually to each one of us what we need to hear. God, make that happen for your glory and for our good. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, have any of you ever started a project that you thought was going to be simple, easy, not take very much time, and then gotten into it and realized that it was far more difficult and time-consuming than you thought it was going to be? Anybody ever had that experience? Last, a couple weeks ago, my wife has been wanting these closet shelves in our kitchen closet. And I've told you many times before, I am not handy, I am not good with tools, but I thought closet shelves can't be that difficult. I thought it was going to be, she was going out of town, I was like, I'm going to surprise her, I'm going to get these closet shelves put in,

she's going to come home, it's going to be great. But because I'm a realistic person, I also invited my dad with his tools because, you know, I figured, but it was closet shelves, right? Like, how difficult could it be? They come with one package of hardware and, like, two suggested tools that you need. So I was thinking, these two tools, this one package of hardware, and an hour, and we're done. Well, like, four different hodgepodge packets of hardware that we combined together, like, eight tools, six of which were not included in the necessary tool requirements. And about four hours later, I got some semblance of closet shelves put in my kitchen closet. It was something that I thought at the beginning was going to be really simple, but actually ended up being far more complex than I ever realized.

So maybe you started a hobby that you thought was just going to be a nice addition to your life, right? Just a little time-consuming thing that you would enjoy. And then upon starting the hobby, it kind of opened you up to a world of new information. And, like, you could lose yourself in this hobby for the rest of your life. Anybody had this experience with a hobby? Marissa and I were at the Cape and Resort in Berkeley Springs a few months ago, and there were these quilters in this, like, they rented out the room, right? And, like, what I learned this weekend as interacting with these quilters, and, like, they were more than happy to tell me about this world of quilting, right? It's just, like, it's just, it's just village. It's just, like, it's just so much information about quilting.

And my favorite stories, I saw this lady, they were there day in and day out. We would wake up at 7 a.m., they were in there quilting. We would come back at 9 p.m., they were in there quilting. And one time I saw a lady taking a break from quilting, and she was in the little library with a magazine, and the magazine was about quilting. She was taking a break from quilting to read about quilting, and the reason I share these stories with you at the outset of this message on goodness is because that's kind of how I felt about this idea of goodness this week as I studied it. So I'm being honest, goodness just kind of feels like a Christian cliche word, like, with not a whole lot of substance. I thought I would get into the study, and it would be a nice thing for us to talk about for a week, but was it really going to have, like, long-lasting implications on our life to talk about this idea of goodness?

I mean, even as I read it in the context in the passage in Galatians chapter 5, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Even where it finds itself in the list, it kind of just feels like a poetic filler, like a nice word that just kind of adds to the concept but doesn't have that much substance. We even kind of trivialize the word good in our own culture. We read books, like, from good to great. We talk about good food, good music, good bands, good grades. And for whatever reason, goodness has become, like, a B-minus quality word for us, right? Like, it's just, like, the bottom of the goodness spectrum. However, as I studied this passage, as I studied this word goodness in its biblical context, I was blown away by all of the ideas and implications that are built into this one simple word.

I think it's honestly the most complicated characteristic of the fruits of the Spirit for us to pull off. We're going to get into that a little bit more, but it's so all-encompassing that for us to kind of wrap our minds around it and feel good about, like, manifesting goodness in our life, I think it's really difficult. And what I believe is that our hope and pray is that as we get into this study, it's going to open up our lives to a lifelong pursuit of understanding what it looks like to manifest the goodness of God in our everyday lives. It's not some simple cliche word. It is far-reaching and radical. So, let's get into it. Let's talk about what it means and how it might impact our lives. God's goodness literally starts at the beginning of the pages of Scripture.

The first two chapters in Genesis are filled with this word good. God declaring that his creation is good. Genesis 1 and 2, we read the word good seven times in the first two chapters of Scripture. It says, and God created the light. He saw that light was good. God saw that dry land and water was good. God saw that plants and trees, they were good. He saw the birds of the air and the fish of the sea, and they were good. He created us, male and female, in his image, giving us dominion over all of creation. And he declared at the end of it all that it was very good. From the beginning, God has been demonstrating his goodness to us through his creation. He created human beings in his image. And he gave us creativity to steward creation.

He put us in a perfect garden in harmony with one another and with creation. And he said that it was good. All of this was a manifestation of God's goodness, but there's only one problem, right? You guys have read, like, those of you that have tried to read Scripture through the Bible in a year, I know you've made it at least this far. Like, the first three pages of Scripture, we've got goodness all over the first two chapters of creation. And then in an instant, goodness is shattered. God's creation decides that they are going to redefine goodness in their own image. At the root of the serpent's temptation in the garden is this doubt that God is good. He's putting the seed of doubt in the mind of Adam and Eve that God might not be good, that he might try to be withholding them from something.

And Adam and Eve eventually believe this lie, that God is trying to withhold good things from them. And they decide that they are going to redefine goodness in their own image. See, biblical goodness is rooted in God. But we've spent the rest of creation from Genesis chapter 3 until now redefining goodness in our own image to fit our own narrative, our own agenda, to make us feel like we are justified to do the things that we want to do, do the things we want to do the way that we want to do them. We redefine goodness in our own image. It starts with Adam and Eve, but we can't blame them. We've got to take credit where credit is due. And there's this awesome passage in Romans chapter 1 that pretty much articulates that ever since Adam and Eve decided to redefine goodness in their own image,

we've taken up that mantle and risen with it, right? Like we, culture by culture, generation by generation, continue this pattern of redefining God's goodness in our own image. Romans chapter 1, verse 18 says this, But God chose his anger from heaven against all sinful and wicked people who do what? They suppress the truth. The truth is that God is good, that his definition of goodness matters. But by their wickedness, they know the truth about God because he's made it obvious to them in creation. And through his interacting with the nation of Israel and sending Jesus, he's made his goodness clear to us. But ever since the world was created, people have seen the earth and sky, we've seen everything that God has made, we can clearly see God's invisible qualities, his eternal power, and his divine nature.

So we have no excuse for not knowing God. Yes, we knew God, but we wouldn't worship him as God or even give him thanks. We begin to think up foolish ideas of what God was like. See this redefinition of goodness in Romans chapter 1? It's humanity thinking up foolish ideas of what God is like, redefining God's goodness in our own image. It says, As a result, their minds became dark and confused, claiming to be wise. They instead became utter fools, and instead of worshiping the glorious, ever-living God, they worshiped idols made to look like mere people and birds and animals and reptiles. We have taken this mantle of redefining God's goodness in our own image, and we continue to do it. We think about foolish ideas about what God is like. We create religions that we can control so that we get to define what is right and wrong and take that responsibility out of God's hands.

So far, this is a lot of bad news, right? This is a lot of negative talk. But God was not caught off guard by our redefinition of goodness. It wasn't a surprise to him. And from the moment we rebelled, God began his plan of recreating. Recreating things back into his image, back into his goodness. We read at the very end of Scripture. For those of you that made it that far in your Scripture reading, I'll give you a quick hand, right? Like, it's not easy. We got through the first three chapters of Genesis. Now we're at the end of Revelation. At the end of it all, we see God recreating a new heaven and a new earth, restoring creation to the goodness that he intended. And he allows us to participate in this process of recreation.

The new heaven and the new earth is the only thing that could be better than the Garden of Eden. So God has this ultimate plan to restore his goodness. And the new heaven and the new earth is going to be better than the Garden of Eden. Because in the Garden of Eden, there was always an opportunity for rebellion. There was always the tree of the knowledge of good and evil for us to take and eat. If Adam and Eve didn't do it, somebody would have done it.

Because in the new heaven and the new earth, it's filled with people who have bowed their knees in submission and reverence to King Jesus. There will be no rebellion in the new heaven and the new earth. The new heaven and the new earth is the fullness of God's recreation, goodness restored eternally. But it's still a process. We're still in the middle of it. But we're in between God's original good design, the brokenness of it, us participating regularly in redefining his goodness. And eventually he's going to restore it. But for now, we're in this process where God's partially and slowly working his plan for recreation. We see this start in the Old Testament, obviously through the nation of Israel. And God is working his plan for recreation through the nation of Israel. So it's going to lead us all the way up to Jesus' birth.

If you've been in church a long time, you know all of this. But we see one key character in this recreation process that I want to focus on this morning. His name is Moses. You guys familiar with Moses, right? So Moses is leading the people of Israel out of slavery in Egypt. And God parts the Red Sea. They walk across on dry land. All is going well. And Moses goes up on Mount Sinai to meet with God and to hear from God and to get some good laws from God that are going to help the nation of Israel live into God's goodness here in this broken world. And before Moses even comes down the mountain, what does Israel do? They start redefining God's goodness in their own image. They create a golden path that they can control, a religious system that they can be in charge of.

They're redefining God's goodness in his image. And finally, God's like, all right, Moses, I've had it with these people. I'm going to have to take a break. Maybe you and I can recreate a new nation or something. And Moses is like, no, God, you made this promise to Abraham. You've been faithful to your people. You've got to keep being faithful. It's a really interesting conversation. If you haven't read it, Exodus chapter 33 is one of the most quoted chapters in all of the Bible. The Bible, New Testament writers quote it a lot. Other Old Testament writers quote it a lot. It's a fun conversation. But at the climax of it, Moses decides that he wants to see God's presence, his glory, face to face. He wants to know who God is. And so he's having this conversation with God.

And this is what he says in Exodus chapter 33, verse 18. Moses responded to God, show me your glorious presence. Essentially what Moses is saying here is I want to see you face to face. I want to know what you're like. I want to know you intimately. I want to understand fully who you are and what you're like. Show me your glory. And what is God's response? I will make my goodness pass before you. And I will call out to you my name, Yahweh. For I will show mercy to anyone I choose. And I will show compassion to anyone I choose. But you may not look at me directly or see my face. So Moses wants to see all of God's fullness, who he is, what he's like, God's glory. And God says all of my fullness can be summarized by my goodness.

And I'm going to show you some of it partially, but I can't show it to you all because if you see it, your face will melt off. Like this idea of goodness, God's goodness is so vast, so big, so overwhelming that human minds can't fully comprehend it. We've turned it into this cliche word that we use and we put on coffee mugs. But at the end of the day, God's goodness is the summarization of who he is. He tells Moses, you want to see who I am, you want to see what I'm like, well, let me show you my goodness. And this passage is where I want to derive my definition for goodness this morning. I would say that God's goodness or this goodness that we're talking about in Galatians chapter 5 is the summarization of all of God's attributes and actions bound together in a single word.

It's radical, overwhelming, and even impossible for us to wrap our minds around. And if we're going to be a people that the Holy Spirit produces goodness in our life, it can't come from us. It has to come from a radical dependence on the Holy Spirit. This is not one of those things that we can fake. We can fake patience. We can fake kindness sometimes, right? But we can't fake goodness. Goodness is the whole expression of all of God's attributes and actions bound together in a single word. We have to be totally reliant on the Holy Spirit for this to happen.

I'm going to do my best to illustrate this, knowing that any time you try and illustrate a characteristic of God, that it's possible that the illustration is going to fall short, right? Because he tells Moses, you can't really comprehend it if you do your face will melt off. So my silly illustration is probably going to fall short, but I hope that it helps. You got, when you got walked in, you probably got one of these clips, right? Everybody get a clip? Hold up your clip if you have it. Great. So what I have here is I got a couple stacks of cardstock listed on it. Attributes of God and actions of God. We've got God's grace. Everybody likes God's grace, right? He's one of our favorite. God's grace. He's a gracious God. God's faithful. Everybody loves God's faithfulness, right?

He's faithful to us. He's consistent. He's steadfast. We're like that. God's patient. Long-suffering. He's powerful. He splits the Red Sea. He makes the sun stand still. He's just. He cares about what's right and good and making sure that that happens. He's wise. He's sovereign. He's in control of all things. He's holy. He's righteous. We have a lot of attributes from God, right? And then we've got actions from God. We see him interact with his people in the Old Testament, in the New Testament. We see him interact with guys like King David, and David's sinful and messes up all the time, and God's just faithful and patient and gracious with him. We see King Solomon, who's got all of these wives, and we're like, why is he, why does God work with this guy? He's doing all this crazy stuff.

That's crazy. And then we've got Babylon, right? We've got God allowing his people to go into slavery from a wicked and cruel nation. We see power in the Red Sea. We see all of these incredible actions. We see him bringing Israel out of slavery in Egypt. We see the walls of Jericho falling down. So we have a list of all of these actions and attributes of God. And what I believe goodness is, is I believe goodness is all of these things bound together in a single word. But what do we do? What do we do as Christians when we find ourselves in situations where we know God is calling us to goodness? He's calling us to manifest goodness in our lives. But what we tend to do is, depending on the situation, we tend to pick and choose the attributes and actions that fit our narrative and agenda.

So when you're about to sin, you're tempted to sin, and you know it's coming, and you're like, I know I shouldn't do this. I shouldn't gossip about my coworker. I shouldn't have this extra beer. I shouldn't do this thing. I shouldn't say this about this person or whatever it is. You've got that temptation to sin. You know you're about to do it. And you think to yourself, well, hmm, let me see here. We've got God's grace. God's a gracious God, right? And we've got King David. Man, King David was a wicked dude, and God just kept forgiving him over and over and over again. So what I'm going to do, and I'm just going to sin anyway because God's gracious and because God's good to sinners like King David. So I'm just going to do that.

Or someone sins against us. And then we're like, screw this grace thing. Where's the justice? Where's the justice? The justice is here somewhere. I know it's here somewhere. We've got God's justice. Here we go. God's just. And then we've got, like, the walls of Jericho falling down. We're like, God brings down mountains of stone on his enemies. And so my enemies are going to get God's justice and his power. And so we pick and choose. Do you see what we do here? Am I the only one that does this? Am I the only one that picks and chooses God's attributes and actions that fit my agenda? See, Romans chapter 1 is actually about non-Christians. We're redefining God's goodness in our own image. But Christians, we actually kind of use God, parts of God. And we actually, thinking that we're righteous or more holy than other people, we do the same thing that they do with just a twist.

We take parts of God's actions and attributes, the ones that fit our agenda and narrative, and we do those things. Maybe your friend's caught up in a pattern of sin, and you know you should say something to them. Like, you know you have that type of relationship. You love them. You care about them. You see them going down a path they shouldn't go down. And you feel the Holy Spirit prompting you to have a conversation. But instead, because you don't want to have the conversation, you know it's going to be hard. You know it's going to be difficult. You know it might not go the way that you want it to go. You remind yourself of God's patience. You remind yourself of Solomon and his 700 wives. And you're like, God didn't say anything to Solomon, so maybe I shouldn't say anything to this person that I care about, that I love.

Even though we know the Holy Spirit is prompting us, the good thing to do is to find where God's actions and attributes are bound together and to be led by the Holy Spirit to do the good thing that God wants us to do in the moment. But instead, we redefine goodness in our image to fit our agendas and our narratives so that we don't actually have to do the thing that we know God's calling us to do. Goodness, it's all of God's actions and all of his attributes bound together in a single word. But if we're honest, sometimes it's hard to take how God interacted with the nation of Israel and apply that directly to our lives, right? Like Yahweh interacting with the Old Testament doesn't always necessarily fit our lives. And so God does this incredibly good thing in his plan for recreation, in his process of recreation,

not just working with the nation of Israel, but then he sends his one and only son in the flesh to manifest what it looks like for God to live in a human body, for us to see what goodness looks like in a person. God sends Jesus, his goodness perfectly demonstrated in the person of Jesus. Colossians 1, verse 15 says that Christ is the visible image of the invisible God. Do we want to know what goodness looks like? Do we want to know what all of God's actions and attributes bound together in a single person looks like? It looks like Jesus. John 14, 9, Jesus says, Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father. Do we want to know what goodness looks like? Do we want to know what all of God's actions and attributes look like?

Look like Jesus. So what does Jesus say about goodness and how does he demonstrate it in his life? Well, he says one thing that's pretty profound about goodness. This rich young ruler comes to him and wants to know how to inherit eternal life. He says, Good teacher, what must I do to have eternal life? And Jesus says to him, Why do you call me good? For no one can be good except for God. So again, I hope you're seeing that this task that Paul is asking us to do, he's asking us to manifest goodness in our life that it's impossible, that Jesus himself says no one can be good except for God. Because how are we who don't have the mind of God, who aren't sovereign and in control, we can't read people's hearts. So often we see Jesus interact with people.

Part of his interaction is him knowing what's in their hearts or knowing what's in their minds. We don't have that. So it's an impossible task that we're being asked to do, which is why I think we have to be radically dependent on the Holy Spirit. So often we find ourselves in situations and we want to know what God would do. We want to know what God would have us to do. And instead of praying and being dependent on the Holy Spirit, we just go back to our head knowledge and we try and find the proof text that can allow us to do the thing that we want to do. We pick and choose his actions and his attributes that fit our agenda and our narrative. And I just want to say I believe that the goodness of God is so much bigger than that.

I believe that the goodness of God is going to take some serious prayer, some serious reliance on the Holy Spirit. Jesus says that he's going to send his spirit and that through his spirit, his followers will do far greater things than he did. Do we take that seriously? Do we seriously think that the Holy Spirit can produce God's goodness in our lives? Do we seriously think that we can bind all of these things together in nuance, in relationship with our neighbors and our coworkers and our friends? The reality is we can't do it unless we're trusting in the Holy Spirit to give us wisdom for each situation and circumstance we find ourselves in. If we're not dependent on the Holy Spirit, if we're not praying, if we're not asking God for wisdom, what we'll do is we'll pick and choose the stories

that allow us to do the thing that we want to do. And I don't know about you, but far too often, far too often, I'm really good at finding the things that justify the actions that I want to do.

And so God, he sends us Jesus to be the perfect manifestation of goodness, to be all of God's actions and attributes bound up in a single word. We see Jesus having interactions with a woman caught in adultery. We see him with a soldier in the garden. Peter chops his ear off. This guy's about to take Jesus to the cross, and Jesus lovingly picks up his ear and puts it back on.

We see Jesus with a religious leader, Nicodemus, and he seems to be pretty gracious with Nicodemus. He says, for God so loved you that he sent his one and only son, that whoever might believe in him would have eternal life. He seems to have a lot of grace for Nicodemus, but then later he calls some other religious leaders whitewashed tombs. How do we reconcile those two things? How do we reconcile God at night sitting with Nicodemus being gracious, reminding him of God's goodness and his faithfulness, and then Jesus calling the religious leaders whitewashed tombs or flipping tables in the temple? How do we reconcile all of these things? It's all of God's actions and attributes bound together in a single word, and the only way that we're going to manifest this, the only way that we're going to do this well in relationship with our neighbors,

our co-workers and our friends is if the Holy Spirit is working in us and through us. If we are getting to know Jesus, like actually spending time with Jesus, and if we're living in community with other brothers and sisters who also know Jesus, but look at this, think differently than we do, because Jesus is a pretty profound, all-consuming religious leader, and we tend to have blind spots, right? Like we tend to see things that we want to see and ignore things that we don't want to see, and so it would be good if we, as the church gathered together with other believers who think differently about us but who also know Jesus, and then we radically rely on the Holy Spirit to lead us into his goodness. So what does this look like? We've got to stop picking and choosing the actions and attributes of God that best fit our narratives.

We've got to stop redefining God's goodness in our own image. We've got to radically rely on the Holy Spirit. This is what I was talking about at the beginning of the message, that I feel like God's goodness is opening up a door that we're going to spend the rest of our lives trying to figure out, the rest of our lives trying to rely on the Holy Spirit to produce this fruit in our lives. It's not something that we can just add a couple practical steps into our life, and we'll be better at being good. It doesn't work that way. Our tendency is to redefine God's goodness in our own image, and so if we're going to produce God's goodness in our life, we have to be radically dependent on his Holy Spirit. So hopefully you take these clips with you and you put them somewhere,

and you remember the holistic nature of God's goodness. You remember that it's all of his actions and attributes bound up in a single word. You remember that in order for you to be good, it means being perfect. It means perfectly balancing all of God's actions and attributes in every situation and scenario you find yourself in, and you cannot do that.

I define God's goodness as all of his actions and attributes summarized in a word. What does that look like lived out? How do we live that? I would define the application of God's goodness this way, that goodness is doing the right things at the right time for the right reasons, no matter who is watching or what the consequences might be. How many of you would raise your hand, sign up, and say, I think I could figure that out. No, right? If we were going to do this religious message on how to be good, we would pick and choose parts of that, because we can do some of those things. We can do the right thing at the right time for the wrong reason, right? I'm pretty good at doing the right thing at the right time for the wrong reason.

I'm pretty good at doing the right thing at the right time when the people that I want to be watching me are watching me, but when they're not around, I'm not as good at doing the right thing at the right time for the right reason. And so for us to manifest the goodness of God in our life, it looks like us always answering this question rightly. What would Jesus do if he were me? That's what goodness looks like manifested in our everyday lives. In every situation and circumstance, you ask yourself, what would Jesus do if he were me? And guess what? You're going to get it wrong sometimes. You're going to fail. You're going to think you heard from God, and you're going to do something, and you're going to realize that was not of God.

That was definitely me redefining God's goodness in my own image. And what happens when we do that is we ask for forgiveness. We receive the grace of God, and we go to the people that we messed up and say, hey, I thought I was doing the thing that God would have me to do, but in reality, it was all me, and I'm sorry. Goodness is all of God's actions and attributes, bound together in a single word. I love how Katya Adams puts this. She's a pastor I just came across recently, an excellent speaker, and she says this, that the goodness you are invited into is the radical nature of God reflected through you into the world. The radical nature of God reflected through you into the world. God's goodness. It's this holistic, overwhelming, far-reaching thing

that we're going to fail. We're going to fall short. We're going to step on each other's toes. We're going to do things that we think are good, that in reality are just our redefinition of good. And all of this is going to keep on happening until God's final recreation, until he brings about the new heaven and the new earth, when all things are good again. But until that moment comes, we live in this in-between. And it's difficult, and it's hard, and we fall short, and we oversimplify things because we're broken. And our tendency is to redefine God's goodness in our own image. I'm going to decide if I'm going to do this thing that I decided I was going to do, and now I'm not sure if I should do it or not. Okay, so,

I'm about to do a thing. And this is what is in my notes. I'm about to do a thing. And I'm honestly, guys, I'm honestly not sure if I should do it or not. Yeah, say sorry later. I've been wrestling with it, and here's what I want you to know. Seriously, all things considered, give me some grace in this and realize that I am not standing up here as the authority of God in your life. Like, I am doing my best to teach Scripture to you from what I've learned in my study, but you've got to wrestle yourself, right? Like, you've got to do the work. God's got to be speaking to you. But I think I see an example of how a huge majority of Christians, myself included, a huge majority of Christians are picking and choosing,

are trying to justify God's goodness in a broken world without realizing the holistic nuance of what it actually means to bring God's goodness into a broken and fallen world. See, recently, the Supreme Court ruled on Roe v. Wade. And I've been wrestling with this a lot because I know there are a lot of you in this room who are devastated by the ruling, and there are a lot of you in this room who were elated by this ruling. And as I sat in it the last couple of weeks, and then I got to this message on God's goodness in a broken world, this is what I'm wrestling with, and I'm just externally processing with you guys, guys. Rape is not good. Men not taking responsibility for the children that they conceived is not good. Health complications in pregnant women is not good. Taking the life of unborn babies is not good.

I believe that in this cultural moment, we're so wrapped up in the emotion. We're so wrapped up in the weight of what's happening. And we've been so discipled to, like, ride with our tribe to pick and choose the parts of God's goodness that resonate with our narrative and our agenda that it's possible that I've seen Christians, like, lamenting the fact that there's probably going to be less abortions in America. And I think that less, I know that less abortions is a good thing. But I also see Christians on the other side celebrating, blindly celebrating without thinking about the other victims in this and without realizing that we don't live in a theocracy, that no law can make goodness happen on earth. No law is going to legislate morality on earth. We are waiting waiting for God

to recreate his goodness perfectly in a new heaven and a new earth. And until that moment comes, there's so much nuance in a broken world. And I just want, I'm not trying to make a political statement because I literally, I don't have one. I'm not a part of a tribe. My tribe is the kingdom of God. And the kingdom of God doesn't legislate morality. The kingdom of God sits with their broken neighbors and coworkers and friends. The kingdom of God doesn't protest and celebrate when their friends are hurting. They sit with them. They weep with them. But they balance grace and truth to the best of their ability relying on the Holy Spirit's work in their life. God's goodness isn't just some of his attributes and actions. It's all of them. And we live in a broken world

and that will not be perfectly manifested until Jesus returns. And so until that day comes, our job is to do our best to radically rely on the Holy Spirit. To live in community with people who know Jesus but think differently than me. Here's the thing. The people that I saw celebrating and people that I saw lamenting, I know they both know Jesus. And so how do we come together and learn from one another? How do we try and reconcile all of God's actions and attributes bound together in a single word? It's not going to be easy. And most churches, if I'm being honest, most churches don't want to try. I don't know if you've noticed this, but there's a lot of churches that are just picking one side or the other and they're just like,

well, let's just hang out with the people that think like us, talk like us, believe like us, act like us. And I think there's something special about Canvas because what's special about Canvas is that we just, we get dirty together. It's hard. We're trying to reconcile all of God's actions and attributes in a single word. So what if instead of aligning ourselves with political parties that have redefined goodness in our own image, both parties have redefined the goodness in their own image to fit their own agendas, and what if instead of living and dying by every political victory or defeat, what if we tried our best to live in the reality of this broken world while fighting for goodness in the nuance of every situation? Micah 6.8, God tells his people this. It says, he has shown you,

oh mortal, what is good. What does the Lord require of you? He requires of you to act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with our God. This is what goodness looks like without, and do you see the nuance in it? Justice and mercy. And then at the end, how do you reconcile justice and mercy? Walk humbly with God. Radical reliance on the Holy Spirit, seeking for the Holy Spirit to show you how to balance those two things because they're at war with one another. We want justice. We want justice for the unborn. We want justice for the victim. We want justice. But man, do we need mercy? So I think, I think God's goodness has opened us up to this lifelong process of trying to figure out how to manifest all of God's actions

and attributes bound together in a single word. And we're going to fail and we're going to fall short. We're going to pick the wrong side. We're going to celebrate the wrong thing. All of us, all of us, can we just admit that we're going to stand before God one day and realize that we picked the wrong side on a lot of things? And we did so out of a good heart because we thought we were manifesting God's goodness. See, the main application of this message isn't try harder. It's get to know Jesus better. It's live in community with other people who know Jesus but think differently than you. And then it's both of those groups radically relying on the Holy Spirit and being willing to be wrong. Paul says in Ephesians chapter 2, God has saved you

by His grace when you believed. And you cannot take credit for this. It is a gift from God. Salvation is not a reward for the good things we have done. So none of us can boast about it. For we are God's masterpiece. He has created us anew in Christ Jesus. Why? So that we can do the good things that He prepared in advance for us to do. So if you're in here and you're not sure where you stand with God, you're new to this whole Christianity church thing, this is the perfect verse for you. Because what Jesus said to the rich young ruler is true of you. No one is good except for God. You fall woefully short of God's perfect standard for your life. You've been separated from God, but God in His goodness made a plan

to recreate things back to the way they should. He said, Jesus is one and only Son to live a perfect life, to demonstrate what goodness is here on earth. He's the only one that could execute it and He executed it on your behalf when He went to the cross. If you don't know why He did that or what that was all about, He did it to die in your place for your sins. He paid the penalty so that God can be gracious and just, so that He can have mercy and justice, Jesus on the cross. And you receive that gift of salvation by believing in Him. If you've never done that this morning, I would encourage you to consider that. Come talk to me, come talk to somebody on our team. We would love to introduce you

to Jesus. And if you're in here and you're a follower of Jesus, this is the perfect verse for you because you've been saved and it says why you've been saved. You've been saved so that you can do the good things that God has prepared for you to do. God has prepared for all of us, neighbors, coworkers, friends, situations, that He wants us to manifest His goodness in. We've been invited into a lifelong process of figuring that out by depending on the Holy Spirit, trusting His goodness. And we're going to get it wrong. We're going to do things that we thought were God's good work created for us to do in advance and it's actually something that we came up with on our own. And that's okay because one day God is going to return. He's going to make

all things right again. God has goodness for you waiting to manifest to a watching world. He's created these things ahead of time for you to do. So radically rely on the Holy Spirit and always try and answer the question what would Jesus do if you were me? I think as we do that in community with one another that we'll start to manifest the goodness of God. All of His attributes and actions bound together in a single word. I ran a little over and we don't have communion for everyone and I think the Scriptures say something about doing that. So if you've got communion, I'd love for you to take it home and do it with your family if that's something that you're interested in. If not, put it back in the bucket and we will have it

together next week. I want to end in response to this message just by singing a couple choruses of the song that Donovan picks for us. I think it's such a perfect manifestation of this message of this idea. Let's live and community together. Let's rely on the Holy Spirit to produce God's goodness in our life. It's something that we're going to spend the rest of our lives trying to understand and comprehend. So, Don, you want to dismiss us whenever we're done? All right. Thanks. Don, you want to see it. Don, you want to see it. Don, you want to see it. Thank you, sir.
