BOTCHED MIRACLE AND RESURRECTION
2022-04-18
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gmIMtAl4r3I

Well, good morning, church. Thanks so much for joining us this morning for Easter Sunday. For those of you that grew up in church, I'll let you feel comfortable this morning. And I will say he is risen. Amen. Thanks so much for joining us. We are humbled and honored that you are here this morning. If you are new to Canvas, you haven't been here in a while, we are a young church plant. We say all the time that we are a church of people with real lives, real people with real lives who are just looking at God's word together and seeking to follow Jesus together. We'd love to have you just connect with us more as we study the Scriptures together. Again, if the resurrection didn't happen, then this is just some weird cultural thing that we do.

But if the resurrection happened, this is the most important thing that you can consider. And so we'd love to invite you to just consider the claims of Jesus with us this morning. And as we continue, we've been in a series through the book of James, which if you're a skeptic about faith, the Bible, and the claims of Jesus, the book of James is an incredible apologetic because it was written by Jesus' half-brother. And if you have siblings, it's hard enough to get your siblings to like you, much less to claim that you're the Messiah sent from God. And so that's a pretty incredible claim that the brother of Jesus would be willing to literally put himself in harm's way, become a martyr for the sake of claiming that his brother was Messiah. Incredible story. We'll get back to that book next week.

But I'm going to take a break this week, and we're going to kind of have a resurrection-focused message. So if you have your Bibles and you want to follow along, we're going to be in Mark chapter 8 most of our time this morning. Mark chapter 8. And if you have phones and you want to grab your Bible app, I'll be in the New Living Translation. It'll also be on the screen behind me. I'm excited. This is my first ever Easter Sunday message. You know, yeah, I'm pumped. I'm pumped. I grew up, I was a youth pastor early on in my days. And then an executive. And I call myself a JV pastor. We get to preach on holidays like Memorial Day and Fourth of July when no one's here. So now that you guys are all here, I'm like looking, and I'm like, people are here and like excited.

So I'm pumped to be sharing with you this morning. Let me pray, and then we'll kind of hop into our text in Mark chapter 8. God, we are so thankful for the empty tomb. Like I said, if it didn't happen, then this is just some weird thing that we all kind of are wasting our times doing. But we believe that it happened. And because it happened, this is the most important hour of our days.

God, you have come to give us forgiveness, to give us redemption, victory over sin, death, and the grave. And so, God, just speak to us this morning. Remind us of your goodness and your faithfulness. The reality is there's not a person on earth that is a good enough communicator that can have a message for every single person in this room. But the Holy Spirit is good enough to do that. When Peter gave his first sermon and you say that you translated his message into the language of the hearers, I pray this morning, God, that you would translate the message that you have given me into the ears of each individual in this room, that they would hear a word from you. Not from me, but from you. God, teach us your word this morning. Remind us of the victory that we've been invited to walk into.

Don't let us settle for something less than resurrection life this morning. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So, Mark chapter 8. We're going to start in verse 22. We'll be all over the chapter this morning, but let's just read with me for a second. Mark chapter 8, verse 22. When they, being Jesus and the disciples, arrived at Beth's day, that some people brought a blind man to Jesus, and they begged Jesus to touch the man and heal him. Jesus took the blind man by the hand, and he led him outside of the village. And then, spitting on the man's eyes, he laid his hands on him, and he asked him, Can you see anything now? The man looked around, and he said, Yeah, I see people, but I can't see them very clearly. They look like trees walking around.

And then, Jesus placed his hands on the man's eyes again, and his eyes were open, and his sight was completely restored, and he could see everything clearly. Jesus sent him away, saying, Don't go back into the village on your way home. This is the word of the Lord. So, you might be thinking to yourself right now, It's Easter Sunday. Why in the world would this guy be preaching about Jesus' one and only botched miracle, right? Like, nothing would restore my confidence in the belief and the faith that Jesus actually rose from the dead, like reading a miracle where Jesus didn't get it right, where he didn't have the power to heal this blind man on the first time through. Why? I knew I should have gone to the Presbyterian church on Easter Sunday. This guy is preaching about Jesus' botched miracle on Resurrection Sunday.

Why this story? Why today? Well, we're going to get there in just a minute, but if you trust me, I'd ask you to close your eyes. And if you're new here and you're like, Sorry, dude, I don't trust anybody that wears a shirt that looks like that, I get it. So, you can keep your eyes open, but I'd love for you to just imagine that one or two teachers that you had in elementary, middle, or high school. You know the teachers that, like, brought the subject to life for you? Teachers that you, like, actually learned from. They took the boring subject in the book and they brought it to life out of the paper. You know those teachers that made a real significant impact in your life. I'm hoping that you're bringing to memory one or two teachers that really taught you some

incredible things. And the thing about really great teachers is oftentimes you learn lessons that they were trying to teach you long after you leave their classroom. Like, they try to get you to understand things and you just weren't ready for it or you just didn't get it in the moment. But later in life, something happens and a light bulb goes off. And you're like, oh, now I see what they were trying to do. Now I understand what they were trying to teach me. Those of you that are newer parents, you've probably had these moments, right? Where you're like, you didn't understand what your parents were doing when they raised you and then you had kids and you were like, you had that light bulb moment, right? Like, oh, I get it now. And the reason that I want to focus our attention on Christ's botched miracle on Easter Sunday

is because the reality is it's not a botched miracle at all. It's a lived out parable. It's a brilliant teaching by Jesus where he was trying to get his disciples to understand that they were missing the point. He was trying to get his disciples to understand that they were confused about who he is and about what he actually came to do. And if you read the Gospels at all, if you read Mark, Mark kind of seems on the surface like it's a rushed journaling of an excited disciple. Like he just sat down and everything that he heard about Jesus and everything that he saw, he just wrote down really quickly. But the reality is the book of Mark is an incredible, deep masterclass on literary communication. Every story in the book of Mark was put where it is on purpose and for a reason.

Mark had two very clear objectives. And our story, this botched miracle happens to be the hinge point between the two overarching points of the Gospel of Mark. See, the first eight chapters of the Gospel of Mark, Mark is trying to teach that the king has arrived and his name is Jesus. The first eight chapters cover two and a half years of Jesus' life in ministry where he's literally just building his resume. He's doing miracles. He's healing the blind. He's healing the sick. He's passing out demons. He's telling people, listen, I am the Messiah that has come. Because he knows how radical of a claim that is, you'll see in the book of Mark all throughout the first eight chapters, he'll heal someone and he'll say, listen, don't tell anybody. Don't tell anybody what I've done to you.

Go away. Go away. And he'll tell the demons. He'll say, get out of this person. And he'll tell the demons, don't tell anybody who I am. Because the reality is, for Jesus to claim that he was the Messiah, the Messiah of Israel, not only was it going to be heresy to all of the religious leaders, but it was going to be a threat to the king of Rome. So he would have been making every single person in power mad. He knew that for him to claim to be the Messiah, that death and persecution was coming. And so the first two and a half years of his life, he's just doing things as low-key as he possibly can, just to try and get people to see, listen, I am the king. The king has arrived, and his name is Jesus.

And the second half of the book of Mark literally just covers the last six months of Jesus' life, where he starts to clearly tell them, I am the Messiah, but I'm a different kind of Messiah than you thought. The last six months, Jesus is on his way to Jerusalem, knowing that he's going to the cross, knowing that he's going to be crucified for the sins of the world. But that's not the type of Messiah that people were expecting. And so the first half, Jesus is saying, I'm this king who has come, who has promised from the Old Testament, but I'm not the type of king that you think I am. And this miracle that Jesus does is the hinge point between these two things. And the whole reason he does it, he's a masterful teacher, the greatest teacher who ever lived, he did it to try and get his disciples to realize that they were seeing God's plans with a blurred vision.

I think we can learn the same lesson from this box miracle this morning. Oftentimes, God's people often see God's plans with a blurred vision. We find ourselves in the same spot that the disciples were in. We grow up hearing these claims that Jesus is king, but he's not the king that he thought he was. And we try and follow him, but so often we get distracted by the things of this world and we see God's plans, not clearly, but with a blurred vision. This is what the disciples were struggling with. And this is why Jesus used this miracle as a teaching to try and get the disciples to understand that they were missing it. Look what happens right before this miracle. At the beginning of chapter 8, if you have heading titles, you'll see that Jesus fed 4,000 people with seven loaves of bread.

One of the most incredible miracles that he had ever accomplished. The disciples were there experiencing it. They were literally handing out the bread as the bread was multiplying. They saw God's power, that he truly was the king, the Son of God. And right after they left that miracle, it says this in verse 14, But the disciples had forgotten to bring any food. They had only one loaf of bread with them. And as they were crossing the lake, Jesus warned them, Watch out, beware of the yeasts of the Pharisees and of Herod. At this they began to argue with each other because they hadn't brought any bread. Jesus knew what they were saying, so he said, Why are you arguing about having bread? Don't you know or understand yet? Are your hearts too hard to take it in?

You have eyes. Can't you see? You have ears. Can't you hear? Don't you remember anything at all? When I fed the 5,000 with five loaves of bread, how many baskets were left over afterwards? Twelve, they said. And when I fed the 4,000 with seven loaves, how many large baskets were left over? Seven, they said. Jesus said, Don't you understand yet? See, the disciples just saw Jesus create enough food for 4,000 people. And he's trying to teach them a little lesson about how the Pharisees are distorting the message of Jesus. And they say, Dang, we should have packed more food. We should have packed a bigger lunch. And Jesus responds, You have eyes. Can't you see? Don't you understand who I am? I am the king. We've had two and a half years of you seeing me do miracle after miracle after miracle, and you still don't get it.

You're seeing God's plans partially, but you're seeing them with a blurred vision. Can't you see that it doesn't matter how much you packed for dinner or how prepared you are for every situation? Because I am Messiah. I am king. I can provide everything that you need. The disciples, they were seeing God's plan, but they were seeing it with a blurred vision. And do we fall into the same trap? It's so easy for us to forget the ways in which God has worked in our past, to get distracted by our present trials and temptations. We lose sight of God's ultimate plan for our life, which is to love the Lord our God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love our neighbor as ourselves. We see God's plans with blurred vision. We want King Jesus as long as his plans line up with our plans.

As long as his vision for our life lines up with our vision for our life. As long as his agendas matches our agendas. As long as he would spend time doing the things that we would spend time doing. Or, like the disciples, we think that God needs us to accomplish his plans. The disciples are like, we're not going to eat now. We're not going to be able to eat because we didn't pack food. And Jesus is saying, guys, don't you get it? Like, I don't need your help. I can do this thing without you. I'm inviting you to participate because I want you to follow me. Not because I need you to follow me. And so they go from this teaching directly into Jesus running into this blind man. And because Jesus is the greatest teacher on earth.

He's like, I'm going to use this. Use this as an opportunity to try and get my disciples to see that they're missing the point. That they're seeing my plans with blurred vision. Imagine what the disciples might have thought when they take this man outside of the village. It's just the disciples, Jesus, and this blind man. They've seen him do it a thousand times. Healing the blind, the sick, casting out demons. He's done it over and over and over again. They know what's coming. There's no surprise. There's no, like, tension here. The disciples are like, yeah, the blind man's going to get healed. This is awesome. We love this. This is why we're here. This is why we're following this guy. And he says, hey, can you see? The blind man's like, yeah. I mean, I can see more than I could see before.

But it's not good. Like, people look like trees. And I don't know if you've ever been in a situation with, like, a newer magician. Any of your friends ever pick up magic as a hobby? And they, like, give you the card trick. And they're like, is this your card? They're pumped. They know that it's your card. And you're like, it's not my card. It's such an uncomfortable, weird feeling, right? And this has to be the feeling that the disciples are feeling. They're like, wait a second. This has never happened. Why is Jesus not able to do this? Does he lack faith? Is he distracted? Does he have things going on? The disciples probably felt some serious tension, thinking, wow, how can Jesus not pull this off? How can he not figure this out? But like I said, this is not about Jesus not being able to heal.

It's a hinge point. It's to try and get them from, I'm a king, to I'm not the king that you are expecting. See, he intentionally botches the miracle to help the disciples see that they are viewing his plans with a blurred vision. They're getting it, but not fully. They're seeing partially, but not completely. Look at the story that happens directly after it. Again, this is the hinge point for Jesus' king, but he's not the king that he thought. So he heals the blind man the second time through. And it says, Jesus and his disciples left Galilee and went up to the villages near Caesarea Philippi. As they were walking along, Jesus asked them, who do people say that I am? Well, they replied, some say that you're John the Baptist resurrected. Some say that you're Elijah.

And others say that you're one of the prophets. And then he asked them, but who do you say that I am? Peter said, you are the Messiah. Jesus warned them not to tell anyone about them. And then Jesus began to tell them that the Son of Man, the Messiah, he must suffer many terrible things and be rejected by the elders, the leading priests, and the teachings of the religious law. He would be killed, but three days later, he would raise from the dead. As he talked about this openly with his disciples, Peter took him aside and began to reprimand him for saying such things. Jesus turned around and looked at his disciples. And then Jesus reprimanded Peter saying, get behind me, Satan. You're seeing things merely from a human point of view, not from God's point of view.

See how on the other side of this miracle, he says, are your hearts hardened? Don't you have eyes? Can't you see? Don't you have ears? Can't you hear? I'm the king. And then for the first time ever, somebody claims out loud that Jesus is Messiah. And he says, yeah, you're right, but this is what it's going to mean for me to be Messiah. What it's going to mean for me to be Messiah is that I must suffer many terrible things and be rejected by the leading priests and the elders and the teachers of the religious law. And I will be killed. But three days later, I will raise from the dead. The first time Jesus ever clearly teaches about his resurrection and the disciples miss it. He clearly says, I am going to raise from the dead.

That is an incredible claim. Like if somebody said that to you, that would stick out to you. You would hear that. You would understand that. Peter, the disciples, they didn't hear it. They didn't understand it. Immediately, Peter pulls Jesus aside and says, listen, this isn't going to work for us. Peter, the disciples, they were seeing God's plans with blurred vision. And Peter gets a bad rap, but he was the spokesperson for the other disciples. He was saying what all of them wanted to say. Yes, Jesus, this isn't going to work for us. This isn't what we thought we were signing up for when we initially followed you. We said yes to Messiah, but we didn't say yes to the suffering servant. We said yes to a powerful political leader, but not to a crucified Savior.

The disciples were still seeing God's plans with blurred vision. They wanted Jesus' power without his sacrifice. They wanted breakthrough without submission. They wanted resurrection without the cross. And how often do we make the same mistake? We want to follow King Jesus on his throne as long as we get to skip crucified Jesus on his cross. We want abundant life without sacrifice. We want breakthrough without submission. We want victory without sacrifice. What does Jesus say to this? What is his response to this type of attitude to missing the point? He says, get behind me, Satan. I don't know about you, but that's not what I want to hear from the king of the entire universe. I don't want to hear those words coming out of his mouth, but that's what he says to Peter. And that's what he says to anyone who misses his invitation, who misses his call.

And we don't have time to really get into the ramifications of what Jesus is saying, but it's actually a lot less harsh than it sounds upon first reading. When he says, get behind me, he's literally re-inviting Peter to change his perception, to change the way that he's thinking about God's plans. See, Peter was thinking about God's plans from a human perspective. He just says that in verse 33. He says, you are seeing things merely from a human point of view. He says, repent. Start seeing things the way that God sees them. Start following God's plans, God's ways, not your own way. Repent. Turn. Change your mind. Come back behind me. You've gotten ahead of me. You've been following me all this way. You knew who I was. You knew that I was the Messiah. You followed me for the reasons that you followed me for.

But now when I'm telling you I'm going to the cross, you're trying to get ahead of me. You're trying to change my plans. You're trying to do things your way because you don't want to go to the cross. And how often is that our attitude? How often are we willing to follow Jesus until things get hard? Until he calls us to sacrificially love and forgive the people that we don't want to love and forgive. When he calls us to sacrificially father our children and be a good husband, even when we're not getting the rewards that we think we deserve, how often does he want us to continue to follow his example of sacrificial submissive love? And how often do we say, yeah, but when do I get my stuff in return? This is not what I thought I was signing up for.

Sure, I'll follow you as long as it's going to work out for me. Jesus says, Peter, you were getting it. You were getting it, but now you're missing it. You're seeing my plans with blurred vision. Get behind me. Repent. Follow me again. And this is the invitation that he gives to Peter. And this is the invitation that he gives to all of us. I love what John Mark Homer says about repentance. Repentance means to rethink everything you think you know is true and what you think will lead you to life. The life that you crave and trust in the teachings and the way of Jesus to lead you into a better life and a better kingdom. This is the invitation Jesus is giving Peter. This is the invitation he's giving each of us. Get behind me again.

Rethink the ways that you're thinking. You're seeing things with a blurred vision. You're wanting to do my plans, but your way. Come behind me. Follow me to the cross. This is the invitation that he gives to Peter. And this is the invitation that he gives to all of us. He goes on. He says, then, in verse 34, then calling the crowds to join his disciples, he said, If any of you wants to be my follower, you must give up your own life. Take up your cross and follow me. If you are trying to hang on to your life, you will lose it. But if you give up your life for my sake and for the sake of the gospel, you will save it. This is the invitation to repent that he's giving Peter. This is the invitation to repent that he's giving the crowds.

And this is the invitation to repent that he's giving to each one of us this morning. If we want to follow Jesus, I mean truly follow Jesus, we must be willing to lay down our lives to humbly submit to Jesus, to follow Jesus to the cross. We need to rethink what success looks like. Success is not wealth, power, influence, or status. Success is humble submission to a crucified and resurrected Savior. Jesus gave this invitation because he knew he could do more with a small number of submitted followers than a large crowd of self-focused followers. He was weeding out people that didn't actually want to follow him. He was weeding out the people that were just following him for what they could get out of him. He knew he could do more with a few fully submitted to him than a crowd full of people that just were there for the miracles.

He'd had two and a half years of people that were just there for the miracles, crowds following him everywhere he went. And he knew that his kingdom was going to be built by a small minority of people willing to follow him to the cross.

So what does all of this have to do with Easter? This is a pretty heavy message for Easter Sunday, the empty tomb, the resurrection. What does all of this have to do with Easter? Well, remember, at the beginning of this, I asked you about those teachers who had had a massive impact in your life, those teachers who oftentimes long after you get out of the classroom, the light bulb goes off. Well, I think that's what we're seeing in this text. See, most scholars believe that Peter was the eyewitness, the eyewitness testimony of Mark's gospel. See, Peter is retelling this story on the other side of the cross in the empty tomb. In the moment when Jesus performed this box miracle, Peter and his disciples, they didn't get it. They didn't understand what was happening. They were confused.

How does Jesus not have the power to heal this blind man? But now on the other side of the cross in the empty tomb, the light bulb goes off for Peter and he says, Oh, man, is that guy good at teaching. It wasn't a box miracle. It was a lived parable. He was trying to get us to see that we were seeing his plans with blurred vision, that we were distracted by our own pride and insecurities and anxieties and worries and fears, that we wanted God's plans to happen our way. And he was trying to get us to see that God's plans only work God's ways. Ultimately, what Jesus is trying to teach us through this passage, and what this has to do with Easter, is yes, God's people often see God's plans with a blurred vision,

but the cross in the empty tomb brings God's plans into focus. The cross in the empty tomb is the light bulb moment for Peter where he gets it. He gets that victory comes through sacrifice. He gets that the empty tomb comes through the cross. And this only, again, like, for those of you that are in marketing at all, PR, this invitation is not a very good invitation by Jesus. Is he supposed to be the greatest teacher in the world? And his, like, his main message, all of it comes down to, if you want to follow me, give up your life and take up your cross. Like, that is not a great invitation. It's not a great invitation apart from the empty tomb. But because he goes before us and shows us what the results are of sacrifice,

shows us what the results are of crucifixion, shows us what the results are of giving up our life to follow him, it's a far better invitation. I love how Rebecca Meyer puts it. She says, The invitation to suffer and die in order to find life is only made possible because Jesus takes on this life of suffering first. This invitation only means anything to us because Jesus goes first. Apart from Jesus' crucifixion, his life, his death, and the empty tomb, an invitation to give up your life, to sacrifice everything is not very appealing, but on the other side of resurrection, this is the most important invitation that any of you will ever receive.

It's an invitation to suffer and die, but it's an invitation to receive resurrection. The disciples, they understood the end result of Messiah. They knew that Messiah was coming to bring justice to the oppressed, to set the captives free. They knew that Jesus was a conquering king over sin, death, and the grave. They just wanted it to happen without the cross. They wanted it to happen on their terms. Obviously, 2,000 years removed, we don't still struggle with this new perspective. Obviously, we don't want to see Christ's victory and resurrection in our lives without self-sacrifice.

See, Peter, I love that Peter has this humility to share this story with us, to help us see the things that he missed in the moment. Because he knew that we would be tempted to see God's plans with a blurred vision, and he knew that the cross and the empty tomb would bring God's plans back into focus. See, we have the privilege of living on the other side of the empty tomb. Let's not be a people who continually try and see the victory of God in our life without being willing to humbly follow Jesus to the cross. This morning, I want each and every one of us to rethink, to reconsider the invitation of Jesus. This is the invitation of Jesus. See, we complicate it so often, but from his own mouth. If you want to be my follower,

give up your own life. Take up your cross. Follow me. We complicate it so much in the American church, and I, myself, complicate it so much how often we invite people to something less than sacrifice, to something less than submission. We try and make Jesus' invitation so much more palatable than it is. We try and make it sound pretty and easy. Just pray a prayer. Ask Jesus into your heart. We've watered down Christ's invitation to follow him to the cross, and we've made it an invitation to invite him into our hearts. We try and offer people the victory of the empty tomb without asking them to lay down their life, without asking them to pick up their cross and follow him. We try to be Jesus' PR people. We try to make it seem easier than it actually is.

We've blurred God's plans. We've blurred God's vision for our lives. And if I'm honest, guys, the longer I follow Jesus, the more I realize I just don't have to do his job for him.

So often the pressure of Easter Sunday is, hey, there's a bunch of people that are coming to church that don't usually come to church, so why don't you make them feel good? Why don't you give them this really exciting message about how awesome it is to follow Jesus, how easy it is to follow Jesus? Place some music softly in the background. Tell them to come up, raise their hand, send them away, telling them that their lives have changed forever. And I don't think all of that is bad stuff. I just think sometimes it's blurred from Jesus' true invitation. See, I'm here to preach that message. Following Jesus is worth it. Following Jesus is the best thing that you can ever do with your life, but it's not an add-on to the rest of your life.

It's not just this thing that you put in your side pocket to give you some eternal security, to make you feel good when things go bad. No, following Jesus is laying down your life, submitting to his lordship and leadership, following him to the cross, which is a hard thing to do, but it's a lot easier to do on the other side of the empty tomb. Jesus went before us. He showed us what victory looks like. He showed us what resurrection, life looks like. He showed us what abundant life looks like. It comes through us, humbly submitting to his leadership. Christ's invitation to come and die is far better than an invitation to ask him into your heart and just change a few moral behaviors. Christ promises us resurrection. He promises us abundant life, but only on the other side of the cross.

If we want resurrection, we have to humbly give up our lives to follow him. Because if we try and hold on to our old lives, we'll lose it. See, God's people, myself included, we often see God's plans with a blurred vision, but the cross and the resurrection brings God's plans into focus.

If you're in here and you're a follower of Jesus, my question for you to consider this morning is are you missing out on the fullness of God's plans for your life? Because you're trying to accomplish them on your own agenda, in your own power, in your own strength, in your own way. Might this be an opportunity for you to repent? Just come back behind Jesus. You've gotten out ahead of him. You've tried to do things your own way. Just come back behind him. Follow him to the cross. And through the cross, receive resurrection. If you're in here and you're not really sure what you think about Jesus and this message doesn't do a whole lot to excite you, imagine, imagine how this invitation to lay down your life, to take up your cross and follow Jesus

might bring resurrection to your story. See, giving up your life to Jesus means you get to give him your relational attention, your anxieties, your shame from past sin and your present worries. It's a tough invitation, but it's an invitation that pays off. It's an invitation that's far better than the invitation that the enemy has given you, which is that you get to be your own God. You get to control your own kingdom. And any of us that have tried that for very long knows it doesn't work. We make bad guys. So, all of us this morning, let's ponder the invitation of Jesus. Unfiltered, raw, word for word what he asks us. Are we willing to lay down our lives and follow Jesus? Or have we distorted his message to fit our own agenda? Are we trying to add Jesus on to the rest of our lives? Because the empty tomb only comes on the other side of the person's vision.

So as we wrap up this morning, I asked the band to come back and they're going to lead us again in that song, New Wine. And I didn't just pick that song to get the people who don't come to church very often excited about coming back to the church that sings about wine.

I picked it because the theme of the song is that new wine comes after the pressing. She talks about submitting while still in the soil knowing that new wines only produce through pressing. Only produce through literally the grapes are beaten down and destroyed. This is a picture of resurrection life. We submit knowing that submission means we die. We lay down our life, our purposes, our plans, our desires. We give it all to Jesus knowing that he will create new wine out of it, knowing that the life that he promises is far better than anything we can come up with on our own. We submit knowing that we are submitting to a process of crushing and cultivation that will bring about new wine. So as we sing this morning, we're going to end with communion after this.

I just, if you want to stand and sing, stand and sing, if you want to sit and reflect, sit and reflect. Corey and I are going to be over on the sides. If you're pondering the invitation of Jesus for the very first time or for the 15th time and you want to talk through it or you want to just place a stake in the ground and say, you know what, I've been trying to do this thing on my own for too long and it's not working and I want to follow Jesus. I want to lay down my life. I want to trust him. I've been seeing his plans with blurred vision and now I realize that the empty tomb, it shows me that victory only comes through sacrifice. If that's where you're at, we'd love to talk to you. We'd love to pray with you.

Again, if Jesus is still dead in the grave, this is just some weird cultural thing that we do. But if the tomb is empty, this invitation that he's extending you this morning, it's the most important question that you're ever going to wrestle with. Do you want life? Do you want to flourish the way that God created you to flourish?

Receive the invitation to take up your cross and follow Jesus this morning. Let's pray. Father, we're so thankful. So thankful for the empty tomb. We're so thankful that we've received this invitation on the other side of the cross in the empty tomb because an invitation to lay down your life, an invitation to lay down your life is so difficult to follow if you don't have Jesus' example. But the Scriptures say we have the perfect example. Jesus has gone before us on our behalf. He's showed us what victory looks like. Victory looks like sacrifice. The resurrection comes on the other side of the empty tomb. Father, teach us. Teach us to follow you your way, not our way. Teach us to get behind you, not get ahead of you, but behind you for your glory, for our good. Amen.
