Born: JOY
2022-12-11
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ucE4GyToO14

So, our passage, our tune today is Joy. Right up there, Joy. The preaching through Advent is always a bit of a challenge for me. I prefer to just take a passage and un-taste the passage and apply the passage. But you come to words like hope, and the Bible says so much about it. You come to words like joy, and the Bible says so much about it. I feel like all I can do is take us to a buffet of joy. And if you eat everything on the buffet, it's never a good experience.

So, we have to just pick a few things off the buffet of biblical joy and what the Scriptures say. And so, if you'll allow me, I'd like to just introduce you to kind of a buffet of great joy.

And this is going to be kind of the schematic verse for the whole message today on joy. You know the story of this. Very familiar. There's a bunch of guys doing their job outside. They're shepherds. And the birth of Jesus, he comes and he's born on the earth. The Son of God. The eternal God. Part of the Godhead. Came and was born in human form. And that event literally drug the angel out of eternity into our realm. And he was still manifesting the glory of God that he had in eternity. And he shows up in front of these shepherds and they're terrified. And he says, no, no, no, no. Don't be afraid. And then he says, I will bring you good news that will cause great joy for all people. And they thought, well, that's pretty cool.

And then a whole company of angels joined in. And, you know, we sing the song. I don't know if the angels sang it or they just proclaimed it for glory to God in the highest. I mean, just an amazing event. They leave and the shepherds are like, well, now what? And someone said, well, why don't we go check it out? And so they went to Bethlehem. Jesus was already born. Mary and Joseph were there. And they told them the story of what had happened. Apparently, Jesus didn't have that same aura of glory that they saw in the angel. They came to this manger and it's just this poor family that has given birth to this child. Because when they left, they left with great joy that the Scriptures don't say that they said what they saw was amazing.

But they told the story of what they had heard about him who they saw. It was just an incredible experience with the angels that they said what they were telling is that this little kid, this infant, even an angel, with a poor mom and dad, with nothing from our conception, really that dramatic, except what we were telling. And he would bring great joy. And he would bring great joy. It's the good news. Now, I know we often connect the good news with the death and resurrection of Jesus, inappropriately so. But in this context, it's just the incarnation. And all of it goes into that. In fact, you'll see as we walk through that there is this incredible theme of joy at Jesus' coming, both in the incarnation, in just his normal life, in his death, and eventually in his second coming.

In fact, you'll see this incredible joy. So, if you will, let's look with me at the buffet. And to do the buffet, I think first I'd like to take you to just a short little video from last Sunday. Last Sunday was a slightly different service. So, I've heard more comments after that service. about how much fun it was, how cool it was, this incredible sense of joy. And yet, if I kind of evaluate the service from the outside, it was our lowest attended service since we've been in Canvas Community Church. The message was short. Worship was just two people up here. We even closed the curtains back there and a two-foot guitar and we sang just two songs. And then we went out and like put eggs in bags and pickles in bags and cookies in bags so that it made it easy for the people who were serving our guests.

And yet, in the midst of this, there's kind of, as you saw in the house, they all have their coats on. The service had gone out the second time the day before and so it was, it was a joy in here. So, what was the joy? What was the joy? What was the joy?

The kingdom of God is not a matter of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit because anyone who serves Christ in this way is speaking to government and receives human approval. So, what way are they serving? If you look at Romans 14, you'll see that Paul is actually arguing for a godly attitude as we serve one another. He's telling them not to be judgmental, says don't pass judgment, remove stumbling blocks from one another, work for peace and mutual edification. In other words, serve with the right attitude, and when you serve with the right attitude, there is this natural result of joy. That's what we feel like for us. It wasn't the warmth of the building. It wasn't having no place to sit. It wasn't my amazing message or the incredible worship.

It was just the fact that you were serving with the right attitude other image barriers of Jesus Christ. That's right, joy. It was fun actually watching. We did a bunch of things. We also prayed for every bed that was here. And I love this picture because it's the father who's praying for a guest who hasn't yet met, inviting him into our house. And at the same time, discipling and training for a guest who'd be coming in and who knew you. What a wonderful. It was not just fathers, he had grandmothers. Discipling her grandchildren and praying around bed. Here we had adults putting things in bags. And kids, Michelle told you about writing out cards. Notice the cards and notice the kids. Every one of them got a smile on their face. I mean, they didn't get to do their normal slide down the slide and do all the cool, fun stuff with their face.

It's amazing joy. And so it's something about serving with the right attitude that quite some of the people say this is just incredibly consolation. I'll bring you good news. That will cause great joy to all the people. Okay, I'd like to show you a kind of a second manifestation of joy because, you know, every culture does, they experience joy differently.

Someone was asking me yesterday, I was sitting at a breakfast and we talked for about three hours. It was just a wonderful day. I don't know how to re-talk this thing, so I'm just just enjoying one another. But he asked me about my doctoral dissertation. And in it, I developed a tool for recommending spiritual disciplines, means of grace, for the situation that you find yourself in. There are some very targeted spiritual disciplines to get at. Whatever you're dealing with, struggling with, working through, you find it in the Old Testament, you find it in the New Testament. Just a quick example, they didn't sense all the time, but the king was all a fast, because Israel had a specific need. There was a targeted spiritual discipline for a specific purpose. And we were talking about some of them, and one of the disciplines we did was celebration.

And I made the comment that for some celebration might be going down to a Christian mosque pit and someone else having a bubble bath. Radical different expressions, same discipline. This art of celebrating is positioning yourself before God in a way that allows him to begin his transformational work in your life relative to whatever it is you're going to get at. Okay, so this next one is going to be from, not here, but it's going to be from Mozambique. I've had the privilege for about three, four years supervising missionaries in Southern Africa. Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world. It ranks 181 out of 187 on UNICEF, Wellington, and there's only five countries that are poorer. A third of the people who live in Mozambique suffer under modern nutrition. Forty-three percent of children, five in London, suffer under modern nutrition.

Plus the population has no access to clean water. Sixty percent of the population is in what they call extreme poverty, when they define extreme poverty as trying to live on $1.90 a day. Unbelievable poverty. And while I was there, while I was working with, I was North American-based, but I would go and combats and go and combats and go and combats. And I was trying to, I was doing Aaron and Hur for the Michiganians who were after holding their arms up. I mean, just trying to comfort them and encourage them and supervise them and bless them. But in 2019, Iowa came through. It was one of the five worst hurricanes that ever hit the African continent. And six weeks later, it hit Boro, which is the east coast, about the southern north of the country.

And then six weeks later, Tunis, which is one of also the five worst hurricanes that ever hit Africa, came through and literally demolished crops, wiped up homes, poisoned all the water. Kapalara was rampant. We had a lot of churches up in that northern section. And unfortunately, we were able to do relief work near Beira, because in Beira, the ruling party were kind of in control. And while in most indeed, the Civil War ended in 1992, I think, even in 2019, there were still warring factions that held sections of the country. And one of the sections held by one of the warring factions up in the north were Tunis came through. And so, the government didn't allow any relief agents to come. Just came through. We ended up buying a bunch of beans and oil and maize

and chlorine and some bottled water. And a Malarian missionary in Mozambique, who was African, borrowed a truck and they loaded the truck up and we made sure we gave them enough money to literally pay drives of each of the warring sites to be able to get back to the churches to drop off the beans and the oil they cook and the maize and then turn around and come back and four or five days later spill up again to be able to, just so people don't know it. So, in here in the context, no worldly reasons to have joy. And yet I had the privilege of going through service after service after service after service in a rural village and here's an example of one of them. Please volume up. Please volume up. Please volume up.

Folks, joy is a manifestation of the claims of evil, in a group of people. Jesus brings joy. There's no other description. There's no other reason to believe it. There's no other understanding. Now, I have to give a question. The emotion, joy is not just an emotion. And this particular verse is out of a parable that Jesus calls, where he says someone's out throwing the word, and they throw it on a trail, on a pass, and the birds kind of need it up, and they're not going to do anything. And at the very end, he sows it on a really good soil, and that produces, like, lots of fruit. But the two in between, the one in the thorns, that's the one that the plant needs to grow and does well, but the tears of this world, all the stuff around us,

kind of drive our agenda rather than the kingdom of God, and those thorns just choke out the fruit. The fruit. But the ones in the rocking soil, they actually received the word, and they spread it up quickly. But because they had no root in themselves, because there was no root in them, when the sun came out, when life circumstances came in, it scorched that food, and it couldn't make it. In other words, it's not just emotion. But folks, just because it's not just emotion, neither is it devoid of emotion. Are there any football fans here? Three. I can't tell you, I'm not used to congregations that don't react. Are there any football fans here? Three. I can't tell you. We're getting better. Can you imagine a coach calling the team, "Don't get excited when you play."

And you may try to clock it up. Now, on the flip side, can you imagine a coach saying, "Hey, don't worry about the fundamentals. Just get excited." Joy is a component. And it's a component that the Lord brings to us, and we're going to look at several aspects in the buffet of joy. So, it's not just an emotion. But, I don't know about you folks, but I can use some more joy in my life. I can use some more joy. Okay. So, on our behalf, and the second thing is not just service, I said it's always in the kingdom of God, but the Jesus presence brings great joy. There's an Eastern Orthodox sign greeting of believers that I really like. A particular sect in the Eastern Orthodox Church will greet one another by saying, "I bow to the God in you."

It's this recognition that you are an image bearer. Just by being human. You are an image bearer. You are made in the image of Christ. Now, the presence of Christ comes when we believe, when we receive. And so, their greeting was among believers. But, there is this reality that Jesus present brings glory. Here is a case where Elizabeth is with John the Baptist in a room, and Mary is recently conceived, and she goes to hang out with Elizabeth, and the baby in Mary's room shows up, and the baby in Elizabeth's room recognizes the presence of the Lord and meets for joy in her womb. You know, the presence of Jesus doesn't do this, folks. It's how it works. On this one, I'm going to read this passage with you. I told you this, at the end of his vine and the branches.

Remember this story, John? There's the vine and the branches. Where are the branches? Who's the vine? You've got to stay connected to the vine, how important it is. And he says, "I told you this. Why did I tell you this? So that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be complete." Let me read this, if I can. Allow me a little knee-wave, please. What does it mean to remain in Jesus? And how do you unpack that? And while it is more than spending time with Jesus, is it fair to say that remaining in him at least includes spending time with him? Is that fair? Okay, thank you. So, you know, maybe it's me. When I led Pastors of Esports and Esports, we brought pastors in anywhere from 30 to 100 for retreats.

And the whole purpose of the retreats were, "Forget about your ministry. It's about you and Jesus, because what your church needs is before your life and Jesus." That's what's so critical in ministry. And so many people become human doings rather than human beings. They forget the reason why they're doing what they're doing. I mean, they get, you know, performance addiction kicks in, and people prison kicks in, and all that kind of stuff. And so we'd bring them and say, "This is just for you." And one of our main presenters, a good friend of mine, Trevin, a Catholic American pastor, and every time he would preach, he would always say, "Can I get no men?" "Can I get no men?" And so, you know, people would say "Amen." And so he invited me to preach at his church in Columbus,

and I went and preached at the church at about five minutes in, and I thought, "Well, you know, when in Rome, do as the Romans." And so I said, "Can I get no men?" Trevin said, "I've got to own them, brother." I guess I've got to own them here too. Okay. There's always one in the crowd, I'll tell you. Always one. Jesus said. And I'm going to replace the word "remain" with "spentanimity." And trust me, I believe it's more than that, but it could even work. It's part of our response. "I'm the true man, and the Father is the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that there is no fruit. For every branch that does their fruit, He proves that it will be even more fruitful." By the way, all the branches get cut.

Some is productive cutting, and others is not. They all get cutting. You are already clean because of the word I have spoken to you. Spend time in me, as I also spend time in you. No branch can bear fruit of itself. It must spend time in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you spend time in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. If you spend time in me, and I in you, you will bear much fruit, because apart from me you can do nothing. And if you do not spend time in you. And if you do not spend time in me, you are like a branch that is thrown away and withered. Such branches are picked up and thrown in the fire and burned. If you spend time in me, and my word spends time in you.

I am going to say that again. If you spend time in me, and my word spends time in you, ask whatever you wish when it begins for you. This is my Father's glory, that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples. Jesus is so smart. As the Father has loved me, so I have loved you now. Spend time in my love. Spend time in me. Spend time in my word. Spend time in my love. Spend time in my love. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you, and I've spent time in my love. If you keep my commands, you will spend time in my love, just as I've kept my Father's commands, and spend time in his love. I have told you this, and here it is. Why am I telling you it?

Why am I telling you? Spend time in with me. Remain with me. Spend time in my word. Remain with me in my word. Spend time in my love. Remain in my love. Why am I telling you this? Well, Jesus tells us it makes sense to look at why Jesus does what he does. He says, "So that my joy could be you." And I said, "Anyone here? A little more joy in my life? Anyone out here? See what we mean? I do. A little more joy in my life? I'll be thankful." You know, my three hours of justice yesterday with a friend was no agenda except just to kind of hang out. I mean, we talked about Jews, we talked about ministries, we talked about kids, we talked about our mistakes and errors in life, and you know,

we talked about our foibles and our victories and just, you know, but it was the most joyful part of the whole day. I have to be honest, the rest of the day was actually pretty funny. I didn't feel productive, I didn't feel like doing anything. I said to myself 12 times, "I should get up and work out." And I said it again, "I should get up and work out." And I said I should get up and work out. And it's 7 o'clock at night I'm watching a movie. I told you this, "Being time in news, being time in my words, being time in my love." Because I want your joy to be complete.

I want my joy to be in you. And when my joy is in you, your joy continues. This is at his resurrection where we have this incredible joy of his birth. We have this joy in his life he's talking about while he's teaching this is a resurrected Jesus. And when he said this, he showed them as hanging into his feet. And while, he still did not believe it because of joy and amazement he understood me. Do you believe me? I love this picture. Again, forgive me for my football analogy. Thank you. It's almost like you're watching this game and this receiver dives out, one-handed catch, springs in, goes across the goal line and goes, "I don't believe it! I don't even see that! I don't believe it!" "I don't believe it!" And he died, that's the context

of them not believing. They're often believing and they can't believe that they're believing it because he rose again from the dead. And there's this amazing joy because the presence of Jesus means a pretty joy. It just sounds. It sounds. Okay, number three. The first one is the service and joy of bedfellows. The second one is the presence brings joy. The third is the Holy Spirit brings joy. One of the things I love about my African brethren is they have a practical theology of the Holy Spirit. And so often in North America we have kind of this community of Father, Son, and Holy Bible. And you forget about the Holy Spirit. It is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. the word of God is eternal. And it was important that it was what points to Jesus as the living world.

And so the Holy Spirit brings joy. At that time, Jesus, full of joy through the Holy Spirit. And here again, let me give you the context if I can. So Jesus sends 72 out to share the good news. I see, you know, go out share the good news and do the stuff. You know, I want you to heal. I want you to crash out demons. I want you to, you know, eat the stuff. And so the 72 go out and they preach the gospel. They share the gospel. They share the good news. They share the kingdom of God has arrived. They're this really cool guy, Jesus. And they do the stuff. And when they come back, they're like, like overwhelmed. This has been awesome. I mean, even the, the evil spirits obey us in your name.

They're subject to us in your name. And Jesus responds by saying, that's pretty cool, wasn't it? Oh, I saw. Now, there's debate on whether I saw Satan fall from heaven, whether that's a reference to pre-incarnation or whether he's actually seen in the spirit world that, yeah, as you were doing this, the kingdom of darkness is coming down. That, it's actually working. It was cool, wasn't it? However, I'm enjoying that. Why don't you enjoy that your name was written in heaven? Because having a relationship with my father is more important than all that stuff. It's not that the stuff isn't cool. I love the stuff we did for a while. I love it. But it's the presence of Jesus. It's under the anointing of the Holy Spirit that it makes a difference. It's not just for the water.

But it's in the name of Jesus so that people's names may be written in heaven. Jesus, full of joy through the Holy Spirit, I kind of see, I don't know, I don't know, maybe I'm, I've overly emphasized the fact that Jesus was fully man. You know, He was, don't you? And sometimes we emphasize the fully God that He's fully human. He's fully human. All the, all the, the experience of humanity except the sinner. It's the only experience He didn't. But all the other, I think, I really picture them coming back and Jesus is so full of joy of the Holy Spirit because when He told them to do, they went and did, they came back and walked. I can tell you, as a pastor, my greatest joy is watching someone walk into their gifting and serve in the name of Jesus

in their gifting and particularly they do it outside of our gathering. I mean, I love that we do it in our gathering. I love that we have people who, who can teach and people who can explain and people who can serve and people who can serve our kids and all that stuff here. But, but it is unbelievable joy when you find a believer who actually, here's the gift, sends their gift, sends their gift, walks out, and uses their gift and my experience is, it tends to bring both them great joy and those who've encouraged them to do it, great joy in the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit just shows up the faith in me. My takeaway? Folks, it doesn't take much Holy Spirit to sit here. Do you know that passage in 1 Corinthians 12,

13, 14 when he's talking about the spiritual gift? He's number 12. He says, "Earnestly covet the spiritual gift." Remember that passage? It's a little. It's a little. It's a little. Worth them. Violate them. Speak them. And then he says, "But I'm showing you a more excellent way." And then it's 1 Corinthians 13, the love chapter. And I've heard so many people at Isaac distort that passage. Love is not a more excellent way than gifts. No, no, no. Love is a more excellent way to operate in the gifts of the Spirit than coveting the gifts of the Spirit. Because folks, when you go out and you start loving people, you're going to get into context in situations where you're not enough. You can't do it. You're out in the deep water and you can't swim. And you say,

"Lord, I need you." And the Holy Spirit said that. I'm convinced if you want the joy that comes in the Holy Spirit, go out and start loving people. That's exactly why this last week, you know, we had 23 volunteers who came and helped them. And what ministry, they call it a low bar ministry. What that means is, they receive those who are rejected from other Christian ministries. And I'm not judging other Christian ministries. I'm not. They're just saying, "We work with whoever comes." There's some really simple rules. You can't bring any guns or drugs in here. Really simple rules when you're here, you have to behave. But that's about it. Come and be loved and be cared for. And our volunteers are serving these folks and every night, the volunteers are like, "That was so cool!"

and they're like, "Why?" I think the more excellent way to get a filling of God's Holy Spirit and the joy that comes along with it is to choose from them. Choose to step back. However God has ordered you, made you, love people. love people. This goes up in the law of the version, but the food of the Spirit was loved like in the case of plainness to be a self-control. It's self-control. And the disciples were filled with joy and the Holy Spirit. This is another one of those wonderful stories that just needs a little bit of context. Paul is in the city of Antioch and he's preaching and he gets fun preaching and people really like it. And so they say, "Oh, would you teach in the synagogue next week?" And so he comes back

the next week and the synagogue is pasting. And it's past with humans, it's past with God-fearing Gentiles, and it's even past with some community Gentiles that hadn't been to synagogues probably ever. And there's so many people there to hear Paul preach that, that, well, the Jews did say, I'll tell you, I'll tell you, does anyone know the story of Susanna Wesley? She's in family devotions. Susanna Wesley, the mother of John Wesley, one of the great revival of the rest of them all the time. And, so she would perform the devotions. Her husband was a traveling evangelist and he was a traveling evangelist and preaching, ministering, and so she would be family devotions. And his family devotions were so good that other people started coming to her family devotions. And they were so effective that they had over 100 people

coming to her family devotions. And more people were coming to Susanna Wesley's family devotions than came to church on Sunday morning. And so the preacher got told, this is a true story. And so the preacher fired off a letter to Susanna Wesley's husband saying, what's this? And he's like, I can't deal with this. I'm not, I'm not doing the Lord's work. And so he sends this letter back to her, telling her to feast and desist. Don't eat it. And so she responds with a letter telling her husband that she felt called of God to do this, that's why she was doing it, that if he will put in clear writing why he does not want her to do it, and when he wants her to stop, she will stop because she wants to have something

to show her Lord when he asks her why she stopped. He wrote a letter back saying, "Please continue." That's part of the context here. Paul is doing this amazing thing, they like the guest preacher, better than the normal preacher, and so they stir up the people and they persecute them. Eventually, Paul and Barnabas get expelled, they're persecuted, they get expelled, they have to go to Atonium, and then comes his birth. And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. Is there a little good thing to that? There is doing this amazing work, the people around him get jealous, persecute them, make them leave, and the disciples are thrilled. So, when I was at Penn State, I met the Lord at Penn State, I had some radical transformation, I had a part of his life

and I got saved here, I had some real garbage, and you know, who much is forgiven, what much is. And so, I just, I was, I was ready for God then. We were doing this outdoor worship concert on the Main, at Penn State Main Campus, after the game, Penn State football. And so, there was the football, and then like, half an hour after it was all over, we were gonna do this, this outdoor worship concert. And so, we decided to go up and invite all of the, the tailgaters, because if you've never been to one of these games, lots of people never go into the stadium. And then they drive up, they pull out their beer, they pull out their broth, they pull out their, their grills, they, you know, they stand around, and maybe they have a game

going over here, they're not even watching the game on TV much, they're just talking and joking around, and so we thought, well, we'll go up and invite them. So, we're walking to the tailgating areas, well, hey, you know, my name's Matt, so funny you know, when the game's over, and the tailgate's done, we're doing this concert out on Main, it's kind of a worship concert, love to have you come, and we go on to the next. And one of the, the folks we walked up to, I said, "Hi, my name's Matt," and they're talking, they're looking at me, you know, and we're doing this concert, this worship concert down on Main, and we'd love to invite you, and this really big guy, walked in with, "Yeah, you know what we're gonna say, you know what they're doing,

you know what they're doing, you know what they're doing." Well, I've never been one to walk away from conflicts. And so, I just stopped, and I looked at him, and I said, "My invitation just really tweaked something in front of you, didn't it?" You do realize that whenever you have a level three event, and you get a level nine response, it's not the level three event that's really the issue. There's some other issue that's during this level nine, and when I pointed out that there was some different, you know, he really got upset. It was clear that that that's how I'm done in the situation at all. And I've always said, if I thought something was gonna happen, you know, what would you do? You know, you're doing something for the gospel, and you're just in front of me,

what are you gonna do? And I know what I'll do to him, because I've done it twice in my life. Once in New Orleans, and once there, I took my glasses off, because I don't want my glasses broken. And he just started coming at me, and one of his buddies kind of stepped in between, and kind of stopped him and pushed him back, and another guy came over and said, "Oh, hey, thanks for the invite. You know, my buddy, thanks too much. He's got a control. It might be good if he moved on." And he said, "Okay, thanks, you know, sorry to disturb you." And he went on. So here's the kicker. He was so pumped. I mean, it was fun. And while you could explain that maybe there was a rush of adrenaline that came connected to the joy,

I think there was a Holy Spirit question. I think that when you get out of your comfort zone, whatever you do, do it out of love, and in the name of Jesus, and the Holy Spirit has had this amazing way of serving it. And along this thing, comes this wonderful thing called joy. In Christ, this is, like, my fourth point, and I'll be on this here soon. In Christ, joy, hardship, and generosity are often bedfellers. In all our troubles, I write, my joy knows no balance. And let me, I'm going to read this story really quick. I'm going to put my Bible up because I can, why am I going to keep kind of my Bible strategy and I can find one myself enough? Well, no, hold on, okay. 2 Corinthians 7, and I'm going to read after

it because Paul makes this statement, and then he talks about the context for him. "For when we came to Macedonia," this is verse 5, "we had no rest, but we were harassed at every tongue, conflicts on the outside, fears within." By the way, I think that the faith is nothing more than a fearful tell where he set his toes. It's just going to step in. Conflicts on the outside, fears within. "The God who comforts the downcast comforted us." He said, "By the coming of Titus, he tells a little bit about that." And then in verse 8, "Even if I cause them sorrow by my letter, I do not regret it." See, Paul had written a letter to them, and they got tipped off at the letter, but the letter was actually good for them in the end.

It worked out well. The point is, Paul is having significant struggles, and somehow, this struggle, when he offered it to Jesus, when he stepped into the things of Jesus, in the midst of the struggle, a dead fellow was both joy and generosity. 2 Corinthians 8:1-2, "We want you to know about the grace that God has given the Macedonian churches. In the midst of their very severe trial, their overflowing joy and their extreme poverty welled up in rich generosity." By the way, that picture is another one of our churches in Mozambique, where I showed up and they offered this huge offering of 50 kg of mania, and oil, and banana, and beans. And each time, you know, I would receive it. Actually, Bassani was pretty smart. He had a Bible school going on the next week,

and all the pastors from the surrounding area were going to either take the bus or ride their bikes into the main town, and they were going to give you a lot of what came into the week, but they had, they had enough money to feed them. and he leveraged me going around, and we have to bring the offering one when this guy from North America comes, and then we just loaded up his truck, and then he was able to feed everyone in the school. It was kind of cool, until they walked up with three chickens and they were holding upside down, and they were still alive. I went, I went, I went, put it in the truck. These people, I don't know what I do do. I met Jordan, the Holy Spirit, and I went out of the

unbelievable time. It's unbelievable time. It's what, it's just, what the Holy Spirit does. you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you welcomed the message in the midst of severe suffering with joy given by the Holy Spirit. And then last, that I'll end with this. Joy for the blessed outcome. the blessed outcome. Consider it all pure joy, my God of you, when you face those trials. You can look those up later. 1 Peter 1:6 and 9. In all this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have to suffer grief in all kinds of trials, and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy, for you are receiving the end result of your faith the salvation of your soul. And then Jesus, for the joy set before Him, He endures Christ.

So we're going to end with communion. In a little word, I look at the phrase that the early church did communion very different from we did, than we do. First of all, you don't have any chance of communion without a real family, and often foot washing along with it. So this, but when they would gather together, there was joy in the community. We kind of told community in this somber moment, you know, consider yourself and examine your heart and don't take it in a worthy session. Just be reminded folks that all faith material was trying to be a correct to be a correction to them going overboard with fun and joy in the time of communion. They were now coming to this communion meal and some of them were getting drunk before they came, some of them

were bringing special food and then sharing resources. They had gotten out of control. But his statement was not to say, "Don't be joyful." But rather, the early church, when they first got saved, all these people in the faith, they worshipped together at the temple and the temple was nice. It's what Jews did at that time, the religion. We went to the temple and they would do these sacrifices and they'd do these prayers and they'd do this blessing. But that wasn't enough. And so, they gathered together. Let's all worship teams and come on up. They gathered together afterwards at someone's home and they broke bread. They cooked communion and they had a meal and they worshipped God and they heard teaching and the Scripture says, "We're great joy." So it wasn't just, "Oh, Lord, woe is me."

No, it was like, "Oh, Lord, you are saying so much. Thank you." In fact, the word "Eucharist" means "Thanksgiving." Now, I know we've lost that meaning, but it's a biblical word for communion. There's several words for communion. Lord, Supper, communion, Eucharist. But it's just incredible joy. And so, I'm gonna give you just 30 seconds because I know most American Christians really like to zen in their heart before they take communion is what we're used to doing. And there's nothing wrong with that. But after you're doing it in your heart, then I'm gonna invite you to come forward. But in coming forward, our worship team's gonna play "Joy to the World." And I invite you while you're coming forward to rejoice at what He has done. "Joy to the World." Same with our worship team. You probably know the chorus

without having to see the words. Those words will throw up there. But come in a celebration of joy. Because communion is one of the most joyful things we did. What He did for us. He knew your sin became for that we might be made the righteousness of God in your life. And we remember that. And we're thinking of the communion. And we're thinking of the communion. For in the coming of the elements, be joyful with Him as you do that. Take a moment of silence. Father, we do want to pause. And if there is something that we need to get right with you, we want to do it. We don't want any hindrance to flow of your spirit in our own life. And we simply want to plead the blood of Jesus. Lord, I can't intend to elect you. And I see you again, fresh today, on a fresh manner.

But Lord, we want to celebrate as a church what you've done. And we want to do it with joy in this season. Joy to the world. The Lord has come.
