Born: HOPE
2022-11-28
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UlmgkloSq7k

Great video. I have to stay with the last award, so if I just wanted to skip the video, I mean, obviously you were in his presence. Oh, how he loves us. So I hope you can hold on to that, because Advent is a lot about that. So Advent, it's a wonderful word. In, oh, there we go. If you just look at the basic dictionary, it's the arrival of a notable person saying event. You can talk about the Advent of the new season of Game of Thrones. Advent means arrival, but in the Christian calendar, in the Christian world, there is this sense of the beginning of the year as this anticipation of the coming of the Messiah. And in a very real sense, this period of this season, this time, we don't only anticipate the first Advent of Christ, but there is this incredible anticipation of the second Advent

of Christ. And the things get mixed in both the prophecy and in the Scripture and in our our unpacking of it. In a very real sense, the gospel stories in Matthew and in Luke are this incredible and participatory and preparation. You read about Anna and Simeon, Elizabeth, the Magi who walked, I mean, long distance because they saw something in the stars, the shepherds. All of those stories, it's this, it's this sense of, particularly Anna and Simeon, they're almost kind of in there. For when God would bring about his redemption, you know, waiting in the temple. And in this moment around us. I'm not a big dog person. You will like my wife better. I don't know if she's a big dog person. She's a big pug person. She loves pugs. And most recently, we had two pugs. And the second one we got was, do you guys know what a pug is? So we had

a female and she was the alpha. She was kind of a little scrawny for a pug. But Bubba, while very subservient, was, he was a perfect pug. I mean, he walked on his knuckles, his chest was big, you know. And when we get, all of our dogs, we're pretty cheap and so we get them used. And so, he was a year, two years old, something like that. And his name is Bubba. I'm sorry, a bruiser male pug is not a Bubba. And so we renamed him Bubba. But it was later that I finally realized why they named him Bubba. While he was a subservient dog, he was not the guy's dog. He would roll over quickly. He would give in for everything. You know, Nebby got to go out first. I mean, Nebby was the alpha. But when it came to his food, you didn't

mess with Bubba. He lived for his food. And when he got older, and his teeth weren't doing so well, he couldn't eat his food as well as he wanted to. And so, we would pour water into his food and let it get soft. And I realized why they called him Bubba, or Bubbles. Because when I would, when I would get his dish, he would run over, and then I'd pour the food in, he could hear it, and he would start to salivate. And when I'd pour the water in and I'd settle on the counter, his salivating got so bad that there was a drool dripping down on the side of his jaws. Because he was so anticipating the season. I hope that this Advent season we can approach the presence of Jesus in my life. My hope is that we can pick up the

the flavor of him, the flavor of him, the flavor of him, the flavor of the Magi, through an incredible anticipation. And because of that anticipation, he was all to prepare for the Advent of the Nebuchadnezzar. And he was salivating over God, becoming like you in the incarnation, it's a clear and expressed purpose of making it possible for you to become like him. And is this a great exchange? He who knew no sin, became sin, that we might be made, made the righteousness of God in him. It's this great exchange of my sinful nature for his divine nature. And so, Ryan was teasing him today in the back about his Pentecostal upbringing. I met the Lord in the council church. And I thank you. But one brother in the house. And I really remember even Sunday evening, there was almost always an altar call, but it wasn't an altar call for salvation.

There was an altar call to satisfy the salivating of wanting all of God. And we would collectively go just seeking God, pressing into God, the desires of God. And quite frankly, it was transformational. And so, at the end of this service, we're going to have an altar call. Now, you understand that it's communion. But you do realize that, that coming forward, you receive the grace that is symbolized, that is embedded in the bread and the cup. I hope, as you come, you don't just come to do this ceremony, but that you can begin to pray with it. So, the presence of God is representing these symbols. It's transformative. Because in his incarnation, and then his crucifixion and resurrection, and then his eventual return, we have this incredible opportunity to be transformed, to become like him. And my hope is that

I understand that altar call is not in the road today. But today is you come. And by the way, if you're just kind of an observer of Christianity, if you're not, if you haven't said yes to Jesus yet, we welcome you. You're welcome here. You're welcome to participate. But when it comes to communion, if you're at the place where you say, you know what, I think I want some of it. I think I'm asking what you're talking about, I want to participate with Jesus. I want to be in on the goods. And you've never done that. Allow communion to be your conversion article. The opportunity to publicly say before God, yes, I'm all in God. I'm yours. And I receive what you have done. I can only get here because of what you have done. If you're not there,

that's okay. You can just sit. The rest of us will do it because I think a weekly or a regular reminder that we're all in because of what you have done is so critical. Does that make sense? Am I allowed to preach again next week? Okay. I'm sorry. Okay. So, there are several kind of cut-stone words of Advent. And they're actually pictured up here behind first threes. The word of hope and of love and of joy and of peace. And we're going to unpack them biblically over the next four weeks. Ryan and I will come head to him around that. But the word for today is hope. I want to illustrate that. I don't know if any of you like to consume some events. But you are aware of one of the weird phenomenon that has gone on in Inner Mongolia this last couple weeks.

Yeah. Say that loud. Yes. There is this. So, just Google it. There are these feet that are in the tape pen. And they started walking in a circle. And for 14 days, these feet are walking in a circle. I think we have a video of it. And you can probably see it. It's weird. I mean, it's like really bizarre. And people are trying to say, "What's causing this?" Because no one really knows. Yeah, they don't normally do that. But what they're -- I guess that's one thing I've seen is, if you're learning about Mongolia or Inner Mongolia, Inner Mongolia is the Chinese portion of Mongolia. Very poor. I mean, incredibly poor. And many of these sheep are in small sheep communities. Very small pens. And they have nowhere to go. And they suspect that what's going on, that they've gotten used to these small pens.

And they get anxious to these small pens. And so, they start to walk the perimeter of the pen. And then, when they're brought to this large area for processing, and they're all these sheep from all these other pens, they're used to these tiny little pens, and dealing with their anxiety by walking the perimeter. And although they can see the perimeter out there, all they can do is get a habit of walking in this tight little circle. And once one sheep does that, other sheep see it, and they just follow it. And so, for 14 days, they're all in this area, and they're walking in this tiny little section. So, you know, what an incredible metaphor for some of us today. I mean, Jesus came to bring amazing freedom. And yet, how many of us find ourselves walking in the ingrained, repeatable pattern established by our own, confining, sin-shaped pains?

And not only do we do it, but other people do it. And we get into our mind that we don't even see what is out there. All we see is that, when we can find things by our constantly here and everyone else is doing it, and we walk round, and round, and round, and round. And folks, Advent is about one who came into that pen and walked out front of the circle. That's our hope. That's our hope. Jesus answered the circle. In verse 3, Hebrews says it this way, chapter 5, verse 7 through 9, "During the days of Jesus' life on earth, He offered up prayers and petitions with loud cries and tears." By the way, you know, it's interesting, you see that on the cross, Hebrews gives us unique insight into Jesus' actual human existence.

That it wasn't just on the cross that He had this loud cry, but that it was this ongoing longing of Jesus, feeling the human reality, and wanting to live outside of that, and calling us to live outside of that. "During the days of Jesus' life on earth, He offered up prayers and petitions with loud cries and tears to the one who could save Him from death." And He was heard. Because of His reverent submission. And although He was the Son, this is the eternal Son of God, this is God incarnate, He learned obedience from what He suffered. That's a fascinating phrase, isn't it? Jesus learned obedience in the things He suffered. And once made perfect, He became the source of eternal salvation for all those who obey Him. Jesus stepped into the circle and then stepped down with it.

And He becomes for us this disobedience that otherwise we're not free. Okay, I'd like to move on. Because my experience, the hope that we have in the promises of the word of God, or as those of you are wondering, this is a picture I took in September, October, when I was out in Yellowstone, the Teton. This is a picture of the Teton. And I'll talk a little bit about it. It's a wonderful, actually a wonderful metaphor, again, for the hope of promise. And I want to kind of walk you through it. And by the way, not only is a mountain range kind of a great metaphor for the hope of promise, but it's also a metaphor of prophecy. And people often get screwed up in prophecy because they don't understand the simple concept of how much of God's prophecy is like a mountain range.

You do realize that the promise of the Messiah that they were salivating for, they were living their own life for, they were waiting for what was prophecy. And they knew it would come. But you do know that they kind of got confused between the first coming and the second coming. They kind of messed them together. They didn't understand. And if you look at mountain ranges, if you look at it from the distance, it looks like a monolith. It looks kind of two dimensional. But if you get into the mountain range, you quickly realize that it's not two dimensional. I would not pick this one. But in the middle, you probably can't read the words. But the really tall one, there's actually three mountains right there with that tall one. It's called the cathedral group in the Catons.

And there's, I wish I had a pointer. I'll walk, forgive me for those of you who are online. You can actually read it. That's Tewanot. That's Owen. That's Tewanot. And that's a band. That's a biggie. And there are people who have thought that they could walk up Tewanot and just kind of leap over from Tewanot into the band and continue to complete it. Wouldn't that be wonderful? The problem is that when you get into a mountain range, you realize that it's not two dimensional. It's three dimensional. And here's a wonderful picture. And here is up close. Here's Tewanot. And here's the band. And so often in the promises of God and the prophecy as well, what you have is an immediate fulfillment. God makes promises and you get this immediate fulfillment. But there's also this kind of in-life fulfillment.

It's not just immediate, but you walk it out in your life. And then there is this eternal fulfillment. And by the way, the three big theological terms for that in the immediate, it's justification. And in justification, the penalty of sin is gone. What you've done, the penalty of sin is gone. It's thrown in the sea of forgetfulness. But the in-life part is called sanctification. And here in sanctification, it's not dealing with the penalty of sin. It's dealing with the power of sin. And the promise of hope is that God does not only want you to deal with the penalty of sin in your life. He wants to actually root out the power of sin in your life so that you're no longer walking in that stupid little circle. And you can walk outside. And by the way, the glorification one, that's the presence of sin.

And so we understand hope in the sense of the immediate. We hope for the immediate. And we also hope for the in-life. And then we hope for the eternal. One of my favorite parenting, you know, train up the child the way they should go and when they are. Oh, they want to come out for me. And so, as parents, you know, so all my children are walking with the Lord today, but they're in one moment. They're in one moment. There is this immediate, but then there's this process. And so I want to unpack for us the biblical concept of hope that we have in the Advent. In both the immediate, the in-process, in-life, and then the eventual. Okay, let me show you this mountain thing really quick. If you have a Bible, you can turn to Isaiah 61.

Or if you want to be interested, you can turn to Luke 4:18. There's this wonderful story. And I'm going to go to Isaiah 61 because it's the fuller picture. But in Luke 4:18, Jesus walks into the synagogue. And they recognize he's kind of important. And they hand him a scroll. And he takes the scroll. And he unrolls the scroll. And he reads through the scroll. And here's what he reads. He reads Isaiah 61:1. The Spirit of the Sovereign Lord is on me. Because the Lord has anointed me. By the way, Luke quotes Jesus. He's quoting the Septuagint. It's the Greek translation of the Old Testament. Kind of like the UNIV today. And he's quoting it. He says, "The Lord has anointed me to preach the good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted.

To proclaim freedom for the captives." And did you hear this getting out of the circle stuff? "And release some darkness for the prisoners. To proclaim the year of the Lord's favor." And then he rolled up the scroll and sat down and said, "Today, this Scripture is fulfilled in your presence." And they were dumbfounded. They were dumbfounded, number one, because they knew the passage. Number two, because they didn't finish the passage. He stopped in the middle of the sentence. He went only so far, and he stopped. And then, you know, it's like, you know the Lord's Prayer that Catholics do are different than Protestants? I didn't know that when I was doing clinical pastor education. And I was praying the Lord's Prayer with someone who was Catholic, and I was not. And we prayed it together, and I got started,

and she was like four sentences ahead of me before I ever caught up. And when I finally caught up, she stopped, and I kept going. So, these are the passages they know, and hear what Isaiah said. "Released from darkness from the prison to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of vengeance for our God." Folks, that's the second coming. That's the second coming. And when Jesus sat down, only the first Advent was fulfilled. And the other thing was, you know, knowing, like, like, Jesus picked up a one-sentence message. Jesus said something to do. So, as we look at this hope thing, look with me, if you will, at both the immediate, the in-life, and then the longer term. So, here's a question. We know that Jesus has done it. He's done a lot.

And that we don't want to walk in the circle, and we're free. But is anyone like me who found yourself back in that circle? I mean, when you're sick and tired of being sick and tired of being sick and tired, and you're sick and tired of that. And I've been in the circle before. I've walked the circle. I've gotten out of it, and now I'm back in the circle. Anyone identified the same? Two of you. Okay. That's good. Boy, you did an amazing job pastoring all these folks before you brought them here. That's unbelievable. That's awesome. So, it's my conviction that the actualization of our hope often requires an ignition of anything. One seat needs to show the possibility of life beyond the circle. And it's also my understanding that while Jesus is in that one seat,

many of us in Christianity today still need another seat to walk out the circle. That's why Jonathan Edwards and the First Great Awakening, Westley and Whitfield. That's why Stinney. That's why the Azusa Street Revival. That's why the West Revival. Someone just actually believed God for all that God said and lived according to it, and they got outside the circle and everyone went, "Whoa!" There was this incredible ignition event, and people actually believed they could do something they never believed they could do before. There's a book by Daniel Coyle called The Current Code. Daniel Coyle went out and looked at these hotbeds of time. There are these moments in history when groups of people just exceed all expectations. If you would go to Florence during the Renaissance, a city about twice the size of Winchester produced more artists,

Michelangelo-style artists, than the previous thousand years of the whole world. You see these hotbeds of talent, you see it in -- So, if any of you are baseball fans, the Dominican Republic, one-tenth of all the players in the Major League Baseball comes from the Dominican. There's probably a little poor island in the Caribbean. And it's unbelievable. And they've done it for decades. There are places where that's still skateboarding. It's still a church. There's a little music -- it's not a store. It's like they sold stuff, but they also taught people how to sing. And in one generation, seven or eight major pop singers came out of that one small little place. And he began to ask, "So, how does that -- how do you get these hotbeds?" And what he found was -- three principles, and I'm not going to go for all three --

but the first one was that how it could be an ignition event. There had to be someone who could show that something is possible that you previously thought was impossible. I get tired of people who tell me they can't help to sing. My Bible says, "Look in yourself, God to sing." It does. Well, or maybe you read a different one. Because you're free. There's not just sanctification. There's not just sanctification that he deals with the power that the thought can do something about it. So, some of you might know this -- and I used this once before in this building, so those of you who were in the building and I used it, don't you answer. But, what Phil stated in 1954, talked about the single greatest athletic accomplishment of the 20th century. Does anyone know what that was?

A four-minute mile. That's right. Roger Bonister, a medical student in Oxford, did what scientists said was impossible. There were physiologists who proved that the human body was not capable of going a four-minute mile. And in May of 1954, he did the single greatest athletic accomplishment of the 20th century. The fascinating thing is, after he did that, John Landry just 17 -- a few weeks later, an Australian runner repeated it. And within three years, 17 people repeated it. That's right. Because there was this incredible ignition of it. I don't know if it's possible. But it would be amazing if one of us, in doing our business with God today at the community table, stepped out of the circle. And showed us what God's doing for us here at the community church. The rest needs to say, give me ten people that fear nothing but sin and like nothing but thought.

And I wish to transform the world. And I turn that one whit when they be closed in the rain. might you be one? This is a picture of a tennis club, a part of it. It's in the outskirts of Montesquieu. It's a tenuous one indoor court tennis club that between 2005 and 2007 produced more top 20 ranked women tennis players in the world than the entirety of the United States of America. Two years. One indoor court. Four. How does that happen? Well, five years earlier, Anna Kornikova won the doubles in the championship, and two years later she repeated it, and between that and other championships they won. She was ranked the number one female doubles player in the world, and she was, quite frankly, just dead gorgeous. And every single little Russian girl in all of Moscow and beyond wanted to train

at Spartacus. They wanted to be hurled, and they were all in. And literally, one club to overproduce the entire United States in this one spot. An ignition event. Where just one little suit walks outside the circle, and people are amazed. Christ's incarnation was the initial ignition event of hope, that I think God's calling us. He was so walking us. He was so walking us that others don't know how many far away. So, just so you don't forget this, I find that the illustrations that are connected to people are often very memorable. So, I want to do one more illustration on this, and then I'll move on. And whoever was crying, I mean, there's no clock back there telling me to cry. So, we're gonna teach for life. So, Ryan has really inspired me. He runs.

I'm serious, he runs, and he runs regularly. Like, 4:00, 4:30, he just comes out and comes back to smelling like, like, well, you know. And, like the other dog, it was, it was like almost 40 degrees, and it was raining, and we're not running. And then he said, he got on, he said, "Yeah." He said, "You know, I was doing really good, and I've really, I've backslid, and I've fallen back, and I haven't been doing much. And I just need to get out and do it again." And so, I want to help you with a Christmas gift. If you come on up here, I have a Christmas gift for you. As part of your ignition event, I want you, every morning, to wake up, this is a night shirt, a night shirt for you to sleep with, and you can try it on for us, so that, don't you love me?

I hope you do. And, and my hope is that every morning, when you get up, you'll, you'll have your shirt on, and you'll look in the mirror, and you'll see what's possible.

My wife suggested that I, I take a clip from dollar bills below, but I thought that was going too far. There is a limit to what you can do is in the pocket. Okay, so, let me go through really quickly. Um, so, um, one of my favorite, um, commentators, um, I mean, his commentaries are old, they're like 70 years old, and my colleagues at the seminary didn't like him because his stuff is old, and they said, "I'm on his newer stuff," and there is, but he was, he's an amazing linguist. If he does a word study on it, it's just quality, and so, you know, my little book on New Testament words, and then Morning Testament words from him, and if he heard the word, I did, because he shows the history of the word, and the linguistic input of it.

And, and the payload, and, and gives pictures, and images, and he understands the Cornel Greenston, and, and William Barkley's the guy, and, um, he, he said this, regarding hope, there's actually two words, one is hope the name, and one is hope the, the participle, kind of like a, a verb name, and hope and two hope, and he says, "These words are not of any particular linguistic interest." "Well, that was sad, I'm preaching on the word, come on, give me more than that." And then he said, "But what that means is, we need to look at how the New Testament actually used it." And so what I want to do is just give you a flyby, a quick walk through many of the ways that are part and parcel, that are the heart of our hope.

Number one, we have a hope of the resurrection of the dead. This life is not its hope. Your grandmother, who died in faith, lives again. And she will raise again on that last day. You, whatever you do in this life, is not the enemy. We have hope in the eternal reality, a resurrection of the dead, and we put our hope down. We have a hope in the glory of God, and this one's kind of tricky. What does that mean? It means we will both feast and be clothed with the glory of God. That my hope is not just that I will see all of God's glory, but that I, as a mere human being, will be clothed with that beauty, that glory. There's a song on this, Donovan, if you knew it, and he didn't, he said that I could do it, but I'm not going to sing it.

But I'll give you the quick words. One day Jesus will call my name. As days go by, I hope I don't stay the same. I want to get so close to him that there's no good change on that day when Jesus calls my name. This is the hope of glory. The hope of not just feeling his glory, but being clothed with it. We have the hope of a new covenant. Not a covenant of you get blessed, you bad, you get close. The covenant of trust in the finished work of Jesus Christ, and you are blessed. A brand new covenant. And that's like hope for today. We have a hope of righteousness. And folks, this goes back to the, in the immediate, I get the righteousness of Jesus as kind of a gift. It's, he just treats me as though I'm righteous.

And it's just based on grace and faith. But in the great exchange, it's not just being treated. It's not just the point of sin, but he wants to read out the power of sin. And I ask you can begin to walk in the righteousness of Jesus. Not just impute to me, but he imparts to me. I can live different. And by the way, one day, I will live different. Perfect one. Perfect one. This last one, I need to actually read the passage on deliverance. Because in, in this particular passage, it really is a focus of, of not the eternal, but the immediate. So let me, let me, let me read it for you if I can. 2 Corinthians. Yeah. 1:8-20. We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about the hardships we suffered in the province of Asia.

We were under great pressure, far beyond our ability to endure, so that we dispaired even of life. This is Paul talking to us. I suspect that there's some folks in this room today who are in despair. And there may be some people who are even in despair for life. And in this, Paul speaks, it's an autobiographical. I, I was, I was done. It was too hard. I couldn't do it. I couldn't watch this call. I didn't know what it takes. I despaired even for my own life. Indeed, in our hearts we felt the sense of death. But this happened, that we might not rely on ourselves, but on God who raises the dead. He has delivered us from such peril. Folks, this is in the immediate. This is not just in the in-life and in the long term, but in the immediate, God has the ability to deliver here in man.

Your cancer? God can deliver. Is your marriage in sandals? God can deliver. Are your children wayward? God can deliver. God can deliver. I know that there are situations in this room that I do not know about. Where there is this sense of God, I need your deliverance. And I hope that I do. Part of that hope is the deliverance in the journey now. Sometimes that deliverance works out over the life. And it will be in eternity. I promise you in eternity. If you're here, it's full and complete. But our deliverance today is founded on the fact that it is a dumb deer in eternity. And I can step into whatever the situation is and hope in the one who can be in deliverance. And I don't know where you are, but Jesus delivers. And he delivers in the hearing now.

You know where I am. Okay. The triumphal second agent of Christ. He's coming back, folks. He's coming back to fit everything right. And this is Titus 2.13, but I want to read another passage. 1 John 3, 2-3. But we know that when Christ appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And all who have is hope in him purify themselves just as he is pure. That our acts of sanctification, our acts of obedience, really do grow out of what he has already done. What he has accomplished. Before I was a Christian, I remember going to bars and singing a song in heaven, there ain't no beer. That's why we drink it here. That's not a good biblical principle, folks. We are engaged to him. As we live like it.

Eternal life. And by the way, this is not longevity of existence. All of you will exist forever. This is the quality of that existence. I want to end with an allegory. It's an Advent allegory. And Donovan's going to come and pray. And what I want to ask you to do is just listen to the words of Ezekiel. And if you listen best by closing your eyes, that's great. Think of this as a children's story to me. That Ezekiel tells us an allegory. I want to give you a little background on the allegory. The allegory is talking about shepherds and sheep. The shepherds of those days were rabbis. Now the shepherds are you and me and me. A big part of this is pointing at you and I. The sheep were the people of Israel and today it's the church too, your sheep.

The wild animals are just normal, prevalent sources of destruction. The systems, the demonic, selfish desires. These things that press in on us when we get away from the shepherds. The overset in the flock and the weak in the flock. They're both in the flock. But the overset in the flock just kind of sample out everything and ruin it for everyone else while they gorge themselves. And God's concerned about the weak. My servant David in the analogy. This is the promise of Jesus. This is the promise of Jesus. And the promise of restoration. Is in the first and second and second. The inclinations of the glorification of Jesus Christ. And you and I. Just like a child who listens to a story with her imagination. As he listens to the Advent allegory in the book of Jesus.

The word of the Lord came to me. Son of Man, crucify against the shepherds of Israel. Crucify and say to them, this is what the sovereign Lord says. Woe to the shepherds of Israel who only take care of themselves. Should not shepherds take care of the flock? You eat the clothes and clothe yourself with the wool and slaughter the choice of animals. But you do not take care of the flock. You have not strengthened the weak. Or healed the sick. Or bound up the injured. You have not brought back the praise or thirst for the lost. You have lived on harshly and brutally. So they were scattered. Because there was no shepherd. And when they were scattered, they became slew for all the white ones. Our sheep wandered over mountains and on hills. And they were scattered over the whole earth.

And no one searched and looked for them. Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. As surely as I live, declares the sovereign Lord. My flock, like the shepherds. And so has been plundered. And has become food for the white animals. And because my sheep did not search for my flock, but cared for themselves, riding the flock. Therefore, O shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. This is what the sovereign Lord says. I'm against shepherds. I will hold them accountable for my flock. I'll remove them from tending the flock. So that the shepherds can no longer feed themselves. I will rescue my flock. So this is what the sovereign Lord says. I, myself, will search for my sheep. And I will look after them. And the shepherds look after the scattered flock when he is with them.

So I will look after my sheep. I will rescue them from all the places where they're scattered in the clouds. They're scattered in the clouds of clouds and darkness. I will bring them out from the nations and gather them from the countries. And I will bring them into their own land. I will prosper them on the mountains of this world. I will send them at a good place. The mountain heights of this world. It will be their grazing land. They will lie down in good days and grief. And I will feed them in rich times. I, myself, will plunge my sheep. And I will have them long again in the cross of the sovereign Lord. I will search for the lost. I will bring them to the friends. I will bind them in grief. I will bind them in grief.

I have the strength in the weak. But the sleek and strong I will destroy. For I will shepherd the flock with justice. That's the youth flock. This is what the sovereign Lord says. This is what the sovereign Lord says. This is what the sovereign Lord says.

This is what the sovereign says. This is what the sovereign says. "I will save my flesh." And they will no longer be funded. "I will judge between one sheep and another. I will place over them one shepherd. My servant David. And he will come in. He will be their shepherd. I, the Lord, will be their God. And my servant David. Will be prince among them. This is what I, the Lord, have spoken." This morning we have the opportunity to come. It's a celebration that Jesus inaugurated. And it began with his first Advent. The baby Jesus. God incarnate. He then lived inside the circle. He lived the perfect life. He lived the perfect life with the intent of saying yes to the Father's call to be the sacrifice for all human beings. And in this moment of inaugurating communion, he talks about, and I will drink it again with you in eternity one day.

But between that whole name, we drink and our remembrance of what he has done. I find often in Christmas, we, we get focused on the dirty. And forget to save it. So, as we receive communion today, I'd like to run these direction lines come in. If you guys, so the fear will come down the front and then go back that side. If, if you guys will go back to the area and then come down the front, it actually flows. If you guys will, if you guys will go back. If you guys will go back. If you guys will go back. Okay. If you guys will go back. If you guys will go back. If you guys will go back and then come forward. If you guys will go back and then come back. If you guys will go back.

If you guys will go back. If you guys will go back. If you guys will go back and then come back. He took breaks. Can you break it? He said, this is my book. Do this and remember what he did. He took a cup. Cup of the cup. I invite you today to come to Jesus. The author and the finisher of our sins. The one who went before, who comes in a state. The one who invites us outside the circle of human existence. Which is divine human existence. As you reflect and feel ready, come forward and partake of the bread and the cup. I ask you to take the bread, take the cup, come with your seat, and we'll partake together. Amen.
