Abiding Love
2022-06-13
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ef54PRmP_NM

Well, good morning, Camas. It's a pleasure to be with you today. That means you got me all pumped up. Why don't I do like a little, right? It's great. It's great. Hey, it's a pleasure for me to be with you guys. I was talking with Pastor Ryan on the phone this week, and I told him, like, you know, right now we're in this period of transition, so whenever I'm not, you know, speaking at a church, I'm visiting different churches trying to figure out, you know, a place to worship. But, and I told Ryan, like, I wish that Camas was in Montgomery County, Maryland, because I love, love, love the spirit of this church. For me, it's a joy to be with you. And so, we are in this series on the fruit of the Spirit, and Ryan opened it last week talking about this distinction between the works of the flesh and the fruit of the Spirit and how both things, you know, work different in the world.

And whenever I talk about this subject, what I like to tell people is, probably the best way to kind of get our minds around this is, as Christians, we've probably all heard the idea that, you know, one of the goals, if not the primary goal of the Christian life is to become people who look like Jesus, right? And the problem with that is that, you know, Jesus has this life that's so different from ours, right? Jesus is this wandering, nomad teacher on the first century in Judea. We don't have these many examples of Jesus as a school teacher, right? We don't have these many examples of Jesus as a single parent. We don't have that many examples of Jesus, you know, trying to work two jobs to make kids meet. And so sometimes we look at the life of Jesus and it looks like this foreign thing. How can that translate to my life? And the answer to that in the Bible is the fruit of the Spirit. The answer to that in the Bible is actually, okay, let's make this as practical as possible. And the Apostle Paul gives us this list of these nine character traits. And he says, okay, you want to live like Jesus? Well, this is what living like Jesus looks like. And he starts giving us this list of things.

Today we're kind of like going to start exploring those things. And the first one that he begins with is love. If the passage for today, you know, it's Galatians 5, the beginning of verse 22, it says, "But the fruit of the Spirit is love." The Apostle Paul, you know, starts giving these nine characteristics. And I think there's a reason why he starts off with love. If you look throughout the breadth of the Scriptures, if you read the Bible from Genesis to Revelation, probably one of the core messages all over is the idea of love. Jesus himself says that. I want to show you a passage in the Gospel, the Gospel of Matthew, where Jesus is asked, actually, "Well, Jesus, how would you sum up the Old Testament?" Well, you call it the Old Testament, the Hebrew Bible.

They would call it, at the time, the Law and the Prophets, and this is what he says. Matthew 22:34, if you want to follow along, it says, "Hearing that Jesus had silenced the Sadducees," the Pharisees got together. These are like two competing sects of Jewish religious scholars. It says, "One of them, an expert in the law, tested him with this question: 'Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law?'" Jesus replied, "Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the first and greatest commandment. And the second is, like it, love your neighbor as yourself." All the Law and the Prophets hang on these two commandments. Would you pray with me as we begin our time this morning? God, we come before you needing to be more aware of your love. Because if the words of Jesus are true and we believe they are, this is the foundation for everything else.

And my prayer is that this morning, you know, it would be like a teaching, but it would be a moment where your spirit reminds us of how much you love us, how loved we are in you, and that that would make all the difference, God. So we open ourselves up to you. We ask that your spirit would invade this space, God. May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be pleasing to you. In the name of Jesus, we pray. Amen. So, for Jesus, love is at the core of the whole thing, okay? Like, sum up the hero Bible, what would he say? You know, he's like, well, love, right? And as a matter of fact, the Apostle Paul, who's writing the passage in Galatians that we're exploring, you know, he referenced the passage that we just read in Matthew.

So, I'm going to take you a little bit to the beginning, to the middle of chapter 5 in Galatians, and see how he starts off this section. So, this is Galatians chapter 5, verse 13. He says, "You, my brothers and sisters, were called to be free, but do not use your freedom to indulge the flesh. Rather, serve one another humbly in love. For the entire law is fulfilled in keeping this one command: love your neighbor as yourself." Paul is making this contrast that you guys looked at last week between the way of the flesh, the works of the flesh, and the way of love. And what we can imply from this, and if you keep reading the passage and get to the fruit of the Spirit, is that for Paul, it would seem that the idea of living by the Spirit and living by love are sort of interchangeable.

As a matter of fact, I think there's a reason why Paul opens up this letter talking about the idea of love. It opens up this list of 9 characteristics talking about love. Because I think, and this is kind of like my guess, that for Paul, love is sort of like the primary fruit of the Spirit. And you could argue that the rest of the fruit that we're going to be looking at in the following weeks are basically ways in which love is expressed, in which love is borne out in our lives. Now, this is a problem. That's great, but what exactly do we mean by love, okay? Because the problem is that in the English language, the word love is very elastic, okay? And I'll show you how. I am in love with my wife, Megan, okay? I love her. She's the best thing besides salvation that the Lord has given me. She loves me so well. She cares for me, and it's just been, you know, the most incredible thing to be married to her.

I love our son, Jack. Right now, as you know, I'm kind of like a semi-stay-at-home dad, so I spend all my day with him. And I never, I really never thought I could love a little, you know, guy the way I love him. It's absolutely incredible, right? We have a dog named Corby, and Corby came to our lives kind of like when I was going through a rough time, and he's like my best friend, and wherever he goes, and he's just an incredible thing. I also love chips and salsa. And I mean that, okay? You have no idea how much I love chips and salsa. There's something, it's like communion, man. It's like the bread and the red salsa, like you dip it in, and you feel the bounty of God's goodness, right? Do you see my problem? I would hope for the sake of my marriage that I don't love my wife, Megan, the same way I love my dog, Corby.

My wife sometimes, you know, has questions about that. I would hope that I don't love my wife, Megan, the same way I love chips and salsa, but you get the point, right? We use, in English, the same word to describe all sorts of different things, and all of those statements are true. Like, I love Megan. I love Jack. I love Corby. I love chips and salsa. I love many, many different things, and you may laugh about it, but it's actually an issue, okay? And the reason why it's an issue is because if we're going to understand what Jesus is talking about when he says that, you know, that love is kind of like the summing up of all of the way of God. And if we're going to understand what Paul is talking about, when Paul says that love is kind of like this primary through the Spirit,

we need to understand what we're talking about. We're talking about love. I don't know if you guys remember during 2020 in the Super Bowl, New York Life Insurance, like an insurance company, they ran this ad called Love Takes Action, and like any, like, Bible nerd or Christian, like, it perked up because they were talking about this idea of the different words that the Greek people had for love. I think we have, like, a screenshot of, like, one of the words in the ad. And basically what the ad does is walk you through the four main words that the Greeks had for love. You know, so they had philia, which for them it says that is this affection that grows from friendship, and then you have storgia, which is, you know, the affection you have for a grandparent or a brother, and the third one was

eros, which is kind of like the romantic love. And then they talk about the fourth kind of love. The fourth kind of love is different. It's the word agape, right, which means love as an action. The ad says it takes courage, it takes sacrifice, it takes strength. I remember watching this, and I don't know if you've seen the meme of, like, Leonardo DiCaprio where he's pointing at the screen, like, "I know what that's about!" Right? That was me, and I, like, I was on Twitter, and, like, a bunch of my friends were saying the same thing, because in the Christian world, you've probably heard sermons about this, right? Because the word agape is the word that the New Testament uses for love. And to be honest, they sort of butchered a few of the meanings of the words a little bit, but this idea of

talking about how, like, these loves are different is something that C.S. Lewis, a writer from the Chronicles of New Orleans and a bunch of other books, he popularized in a book that he wrote called The Four Loves. And the book itself is kind of like this series of talks that he gave to the BBC, and the point of the book was showing how what we normally think about when we say the word love is not really what Jesus or Paul are referring to when they're talking about love. So the book kind of like walks you through those four types of love based on their Greek definitions, right? Now, I'm going to take just a couple of minutes to give you a little bit of like a nerdy language lesson, and you'll see where I'm going

with this, okay? So, the word that we associate for love, as you see like in the ad, the word agape, it's originally a Greek word, right? And the thing is that if you think about how we understand ancient languages now, you know, they didn't have like a Webster's dictionary that you looked up, okay, this is what this word means. Basically, what we do is that we look at the words that have survived, and we look at the different words, and based on that, we kind of like infer what they meant by the different words. It's kind of like how we've made sense of ancient languages. And when you look at the Greek record of how the word agape was used, before a certain period in time, it was kind of like this obscure word that had a little bit of like an ambiguous

meaning, right? The Greeks didn't use it that much, and it meant something more kind of like a general sense of affection that you had for someone or for something. And at some point in history, the use of that word changes in how it's used. And this is how the word changes. If you're familiar with the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament, well, you know, it's written not in Greek, it's written in Hebrew. And in Hebrew, when you look at the word that the Hebrew Bible uses for love is the word ahava. I think you can say that ahava. Now ahava in Hebrew is an interesting word because it works both as a noun, and it also works as a verb. Okay? This is, by the way, where the New York Life Insurance gets this idea of love as an action, because in the Hebrew language, that was the implication of the word love.

In Hebrew, to love something is to do something more than to feel something. Okay? Now, the other interesting thing about the word ahava is that, you know, Hebrew words, the way that they work is that they usually have, like, a root term. Like, it's like this collection of syllables, and one of the syllables usually gives you an image to help you explain the meaning of the word. In the case of the word ahava, the root term is the middle syllable, have, which is a Hebrew word for to give. So, these words, like a simple word, it's incredibly loaded with meaning, because in the Hebrew language, you just heard the word. And love meant basically something along the lines of self-sacrificial or self-giving action. Now, between the time where the Hebrew Bible, what we call the Old Testament, is written, and the New Testament, Greek culture takes over the world.

And Greek becomes the main used language in the world to the point that a lot of Hebrew people as, you know, the Greeks kind of like took over. They stop learning, knowing how to speak ancient Hebrew and start speaking Greek. So what happens at the time is that Hebrew scholars say, "Well, we need to translate the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament, into the Greek." So kind of like the next generation can continue worshiping God. If you've ever heard the term the Septuagint, that's the name of the translation that develops in this middle time. And the problem that the Hebrew scholars run into is that they realize that none of the Greek words for love in the Greek language quite captured the breadth of meaning that the word hava has. So what do they do? Well, what they did is that they chose the Greek word that sounded the most like it.

Which was agape, ahava, agape, like, you know, the sounding sounded a little bit similar. So that's what they did. And you think, in doing so, they're sort of redefining the meaning of the word. And they're redefining it based on God's revelation and God's commands about what love is and what love usually be. And these things, now, the majority of ancient references we have to that word come from the Septuagint because it just keeps popping up over and over and over. Now, when the New Testament is written, I swear I'm almost on with the nerdy part, okay? When the New Testament is written, you know, well, what words are the writers of the Gospels and the writers of the letters of the New Testament are going to use for love? Well, they're using the word that they find in the Septuagint. So when we talk about the love of Jesus, when we talk about the love of God,

they're using the word agape. When Jesus says, "For God so loved the world that He gave His one and only Son," you know, that resonates, you know, that the word that we think about is the word for agape because this type of love describes active and self-giving love. So the word doesn't originate in the Bible, but the idea of agape, the way that the New York Life defines it the way that most, you know, scholars of language today would tell you the word agape means is very much this Judeo-Christian concept developed from the Scriptures. There's a guy that I like to listen to. His name is Tim Mackey. He's the scholar behind this thing called the Bible Project. I don't know if you've ever heard about it. If you haven't, I highly recommend you check it out. He's doing a fantastic job explaining the Bible.

He says this about the word agape. He says, "The earliest followers of Jesus who wrote the books of the New Testament in Greek, they didn't learn the meaning of agape by looking it up in Asian dictionaries. Rather, they looked to the teachings of Jesus and the story of his life to redefine the very concept of love." And this is important because when we're talking about love as a fruit of the Spirit, going back to the Galatians passage, when Paul says, "But the fruit of the Spirit is love," he's not talking about your love for chips and salsa or, I don't know, tacos or whatever. I think Dave loves burgers it sounds like, right? Like whatever the thing that you love. He's not talking about the love you may have for a friend. He's not talking about the love you may have for your pet.

He's not even talking about the love that you may have for your family, for your children, for your spouse, for your parents. He's talking about the type of love that God has, the type of love that God shows, which is agape love, this active, giving, self-sacrificial love. Agape love for Christians is ultimately not a love that's defined as a concept or an abstraction, but it's ultimately defined as a person. Let me read your passage from 1 John chapter 4. Verse 7 says, "Dear friends, let us love one another, for love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Whoever does not love does not know God." And then what he says, "Because God is love." What the writer of 1 John is saying is that this agape love that the Bible talks about, it can only be understood in relationship to God. That this type of love only flows from God.

And then he makes this incredibly interesting point. He says that God is this love. Now, there's something important here because I've seen this verse misused a lot, right? And usually what I see is people say, you know, that this verse means not only that God is love, but somehow that love is God, right? And you probably have conversations with somebody that says, "Hey, listen, Christianity sounds cool and all, but at the end of the day, God is love, man. Like, I don't need, like, the whole trappings of religion or the ritual or all of the weird beliefs you might have. As long as I'm loving, like, that's kind of like I'm flowing on God's stream, right? And normally, and I think that sometimes there's like a good intention behind that, but the unintended consequence of that is that we end up depersonalizing God. What I mean by that is that we say that God is love, and we mean something

like God is this abstract concept that we can't fully grasp, but the more we care for people and the more we love others and love ourselves, the closer we are to whatever this abstract idea of love is. And part of the reason why we do this is because an abstraction can't tell us what to do. So we can live our lives wherever we want, right? Because I'm the one that's finding what love is, and I can sleep wherever I want, I can spend my money wherever I want, I can spend my time wherever I want, and there's this level of like we're trying to have our cake and eat it too. So we're like feeling like we're like loving people, but at the same time we're living as our own gods. And the problem is that yes, an abstraction can tell us what to do, but an abstraction

also can't comfort us. An abstraction can't be with us in our times of trouble. An abstraction can't die for our sins. An abstraction can't forgive us. Do you see what I mean? When we lose something, when we just kind of like try to depersonalize God and just like bundle it together. Now the other idea though, the opposite of that, is that it's missing the concept of what God is love actually means, because what you see in this passage is actually the opposite of that, right? How does this passage keep going? This is 1 John, chapter 4, verse 9. This is how God showed his love among us. So he's saying God is love, but he's not just kind of like leaving it flowing there. He's actually explaining to you what God's love means. And he says, "He sent his

one and only Son into the world that we might live through him." And then he says, "This is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins." Dear friends, since God so loved us, we all also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us. This is how we know that we live in him and he in us. He has given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in them and they in God. And so we know

and rely on the love God has for us. God, and he repeats it, God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God and God in them. The point the writer of 1 John is trying to make is that if God is the source of love, the only way we can experience this love, let alone give it to others, is by first receiving it from God. This type of love is not the separate thing that we muster up or the separate thing that we can just generate within ourselves and feel. This type of love is something that can only be produced as an encounter, as a result of encountering God. Now, I want to show you how Jesus talks about this, and how the first disciples understood this idea of love. So, let's go back to the Gospel of John, chapter 15.

I'm going to start reading on verse 9. He says this, "As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you." Now, remain in my love. If you keep my commands, you will remain in my love. Just as I have kept my Father's commands and remain in His love. I have told you this, so that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be complete. My command is this, "Love each other as I have loved you." Greater love has no one than this, to lay down one's life for one's friends. You are my friends if you do what I command. I no longer call you servants, because a servant does not know his master's business. Instead, I have called you friends. For everything that I learned from my Father, I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you and

appointed you so that you might go and bear fruit, fruit that will last, and so that whatever you ask in my name, the Father will give to you. This is my command, love each other. This passage is part of this larger conversation that Jesus is having with his disciples before he gets arrested. The way that John kind of like writes out this thing is that this was all happening during what we call the last supper, during that time. And he uses a couple of interesting things, right? The first one is this. He says, "The way in which Jesus loves his disciples, he says, flows from God the Father. The love that Jesus gives, he says, is the love that he has received. The same idea that we just talked about, that the Father is the source of love." Now, the interesting thing, and I hope you get the weight of this,

right? You know, we believe that God is fundamentally this trinity, a relationship, and I'm going to speak right now for a matter of time, which is basically this community of these three beings, one guy in three persons. And what Christians believe is that the ultimate way of love and relationship is a relationship between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And Jesus says, "I have loved you in the same way in which the Father has loved me." You get that. If Jesus is God, the Father is God, in the same way in which God loves Himself, that's the way that God loves you. God isn't stingy with His love. God's not withholding His love. And the best way I want you to understand this is, like, you probably, when you think about the people that you love, you kind of, like, make hierarchies

of that, right? Like, I'm talking about, like, chips and salsas in the same way I love my dog, in the same way I love my son, in the same way I love my wife. I'm going to tell you who I love more, but you know what I'm saying? Like, we think about love in terms of hierarchy. And Jesus is saying, I'm not, God's not making a hierarchy. It's the same thing. Saying the same way in which the Father has loved me, that's the type of love that I'm showing you. And then what Jesus says, he links a couple of concepts together, because he says, "Love one another as I have loved you." But then he says, "No one has, greater love has no one than this, to lay down one's life for one's friends." And then he

says to them, "By the way, you are my friends." Now, we have the benefit of hindsight, right? So we know what's about to happen. Jesus is about to get arrested, and he's about to die. And then, you know, everything that comes after that in Christianity kind of, like, makes sense. He's pointing to the crucifixion. Now, I'm of the opinion, and everybody thinks this, but I'm of the opinion that, you know, Jesus has been talking about his death and unrest and resurrection, like, halfway through, like, his ministry, he starts talking about this stuff, and he keeps repeating and repeating and repeating. And I'm of the, you know, opinion that the disciples were idiots, okay? And they never get it, right? And you can see that every time you say something about, "I'm going to get arrested," they have, they cannot possibly comprehend what Jesus is

talking about. I think that even at this point, when Jesus is telling them this, that they have no, like, they fully cannot grasp what's about to happen, that Jesus is saying, "I have loved you as the Father has loved me, and I'm going to love you even more than what you've seen so far. I'm going to die for you." And the disciples are kind of like left scratching their heads. I want to show you a couple things here, right? Like, the first thing is this. For Christians, going back to love as a fruit of the Spirit, the standard of love, the idea of love, flows from the life of Jesus. And what we see here is that the Bible actually has given us an image of that. He's not asking, "Well, what do you mean by love?" And then he's like, "Well, what I mean by love is dying for other people." Jesus

laying down his life on the cross. Now, I don't think that this means that literally we have to die for others, although some of us may. But what this shows is that this fundamentally different orientation of how love works in Christ. See, without God, all of our other loves, our loves for family, for friends, for whatever, they usually begin with us. And what I mean by that is that there's always going to be a level of self-interest in your love. Spouse, family, friends, we love and care for them. Even if it's just a feeling or fulfilling a duty, there's always something that's kind of like, "I love somebody because it makes me feel good. I love somebody because they give me this." I don't know if you've ever sat through, like, people giving vows on their wedding day, and a lot of times I'm interested in how they do this, and

sometimes the vows are something like, "You make me feel this. Before I met you, I never felt this." And undergrinding that is the idea, "I love you because how you make me feel. I love myself by loving you." You know what I'm saying? There's this famous atheist named Sam Harris, and he says this, "The well-being of others, especially those closest to us, is one of our primary and indeed most selfish interests." You know what he's saying? He's saying basically, "Without God, whatever understanding of love that we have is fundamentally selfish." The problem with that, and I don't know, something I want to say with that, that doesn't mean that you don't care for people. It doesn't mean that you're not, that people are not capable of being good to others or even being sacrificial to others. It just means that kind of like the originating source

is different. Now there's a problem with that, that when the source of love is not God, when the source of love itself, we always run the risk of our loves either becoming idols. And when they become idols, the problem with that is that we demand from the object of our love something that they can deliver. Okay? And I don't know if you've ever met somebody, maybe a mom or a dad, you know, and the kids kind of like live the nest, I don't know, and they feel like they don't have any sort of fulfillment. They kind like they don't know what to do with their lives. At the core of that is, well, the object of my love was supposed to give me meaning to my life, and I'm either not home anymore, I don't know what to do with myself. Right? Or, the love kind of like turns in on itself, and those

relations can become exploitative or toxic. What's different with the love of Jesus is that Jesus is saying, "I get nothing from dying for you on a cross. I'm not doing this for my sake, I'm doing this for your sake." That's agape love. Now, a couple things in there, right? Like the one is, one of the causes I'm hoping that you get with this is that Jesus is kind of like joining these two concepts together into one. So when Paul says that through the Spirit is love, our normal understanding is that what that means is that we are supposed to love other people. But if you kind of like get the whole thing, what Jesus is saying is also, but by the way, you can't love other people unless you love God. But by the way, you cannot love God unless God loves you. So it becomes kind of like this change of

advice. We receive love from God, and as we receive love from God, two things happen. We give love back to God because we've been loved by God. Like the last one that you guys were saying, but then he just kind of like makes this also this other point that John is making. It's like you may be able to say that you love God, you may be able to feel something for God, but unless you're loving the people around you, you don't really love God. So Paul in this one word, he's collapsing these three ideas that God loves us, and because God loves us, we love God in response to the love that we've received, and also we love the people around us. It's kind of like this virtuous cycle of love. Now, you've probably heard this famous passage in 1 Corinthians 13, if you've ever been told, right? Like the

Apostle Paul saying, "Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It's not proud. It does not dishonor others. It's not self-seeking. It's not easily angered. It keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Love never fails." I've always had a problem with that passage, because it's incredibly unrealistic, right? If you think about every relationship in your life, at some point one of those items hasn't hit. And then you ask yourself, "What does that mean that I don't love my family, that I love my wife, that my wife doesn't love me?" Why is Paul making this definition of love so almost impossible to attain? And I don't think that that's what Paul is doing. I think Paul is doing exactly

showing the love that we talk about in the Scriptures, the love of God, is like that. I have the idea that maybe what Paul is saying, he's saying, "This is how Jesus has loved us. This is how God loves us now." So, you know, from the get-go, we're like, okay, we might not be able to attain that, but that's not the point. What Paul is trying to want us to see is like, this is the love that you are receiving from God right this second. Now, the question becomes then, how does that become a fruit in our life? Can we love like that? Let's go back to the past, and I promise you, Mom and Son, okay? Like, don't get that nervous, okay? I know that Dave is like, you know, going crazy for those burgers. So, okay, John chapter 15, verse 1.

Jesus says, "I am the true vine, and my Father is the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit." Well, every branch that does bear fruit, he proves that it will be even more fruitful. You are already clean because of the word I have spoken to you. Remain in me, as I also remain in you, no branch can bear fruit by itself. It must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. If you remain in me, and I in you, you will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing if you do not remain in me. You are like a branch that is thrown away and withered. Such branches are picked up, turned into the fire, and burned.

If you remain in me, and my word is remaining in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. These do my Father's glory, that you bear much fruit, showing yourself to be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Now remain in my love. You go back, you go down a few verses to verse 16. He says, "You did not choose me, but I chose you." And appointed you, so that you might go and bear fruit, fruit that will last. And so that whatever you ask in my name, the fire will give you, this is my command: "Love each other." The secret to bearing the fruit of the Spirit of love is that actually God is not asking you to do anything except to let Him love you.

When we talk about this idea of remaining, it's fascinating that the same imagery that Jesus is using in John is the same imagery that Paul is using, right? Like bear fruit. It's an organic thing. It's fruit that's connected to a tree. This is like a vine. This is a tree. And he's saying, "You don't produce love." Jesus says, "I produce love, and love springs out in you." And what I need to see, and honestly, this is the key to understand the rest of the fruit of the Spirit, right? Like it might seem something like this, that is this challenge of like do better, be better, be more patient, be more kind, be more gentle, right? Kind of like just like this piling of things that God wants you to change in your life. But the way that Jesus looks at it is different. He says, "No, no, no, no, no. That's mine. You can't. You can't.

You can't be more gentle. You can't be more kind. You can't be more loving." It's not in your DNA, right? But if you remain in me, and if you remain in my love, if you let me, if you let me, if you experience my love, you come to me, I'm going to generate that. I want to show you something. The apostle that we kind of historically believe writes the Gospel of John is John, right? One of Jesus' disciples. I want to show you just a couple of passages. I'm not going to preach on this, just real quick, about how John thinks about love. So this is John chapter 13, verse 21 says, "After he had said this, Jesus was troubled in spirit and testified, 'Very truly I tell you, one of you is going to betray me.'

His disciples stared at one another at a loss to know which one of them he met. One of them, the disciple whom Jesus loved, was reclining next to them." Here's another one, John chapter 20, verse 2, "So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved." John chapter 21, "Peter turned and saw that the disciple whom Jesus loved was following them. This was the one who had leaned back against Jesus at the supper and had said, 'Lord, who is going to betray you?' When Peter saw him, he asked, 'Lord, what about him?' Jesus answered, 'If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you?' 'You must follow me.' Because of this, the rumor spread out on the believers that this disciple would not die. But Jesus did not say that he would not die. He only said, 'If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you?'

Now listen to this, verse 24, "This is a disciple who testifies to these things and who wrote them down. We know that his testimony is true." Most of the most powerful and potent words about the love of Jesus, the love of God that we've read today, come from the Gospel of John. And I find it very interesting that the guy that wrote these things, he seems incredibly convinced that Jesus loves him. Do you see that? And he's not saying the disciple that Jesus loved more than he loved Peter, although he kind of like gapsy at Peter throughout the glass. It's kind of funny. You know, he's not saying the disciple that Jesus loves more than somebody else or whatever. No, he's just saying, "I don't know about you, but I believe that Jesus loves me."

So the way I'm going to define my life, the way I'm going to present myself in this book that I'm writing, is I'm going to tell people that Jesus loves me. And that conviction leads him to what? To write, you know, some of the most powerful words about the idea of love. I don't know if you've heard this name before. This is Karl Barth. I want to show you a picture. Karl Barth is probably the most famous and influential theologian in the 20th century, right? He writes a ton of books. To give you an idea, this is his magnum opus. Show the picture of the book. This is called the Church Dogmatics, right? And this is 14 volumes and 6 million words long. Spends most of his life writing this. Let's just say that the guy has his way with language, okay? And in 1862, it's the only time he visits America.

And in one of the interviews, people asked him, "Well, how would you summarize the millions of words that you have published?" And his reply was this. He says, "Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so." I'm a most influential, eloquent theologian. The one thing that I'm convinced is that God loves me. Well, I'm telling you all this, because if we're going to become the kinds of people that bear love out in our lives, I'm not going to ask you today to go and love your neighbor, to go and do anything. No. What I'm going to tell you today is this. The more that you come into contact with the incredible love that God has for you, with the unstoppable love that God has for you, with the unbreakable, with the unfailing, with the eternal, self-sacrificial, giving love that God has for you,

the more that you open yourself to that love, the more that you realize that God loves you, the natural result of that in your life is going to be that you're going to just become this vessel for love. I don't know if you've ever watched the movie A Quiet Place. It's like Jim from The Office, that's like a horror movie, it's kind of weird. But anyway, if you haven't watched it, I'm going to spoil it for you, so sorry about that, right? But it's a movie about these aliens that invade the world, and you kill most of the people, and the thing is that they can track you by sound. So people basically stop talking for the most part, have to move super quiet, because it's not the alien scene. You know, at the beginning of the movie, Jim and his family, like one of his daughters kind of like generates a sound,

and their baby son ends up being killed because of that. And kind of like the movie, it's all about the tension between this daughter that thinks that her father hates her because her accident, her mistake caused the life of her brother, and this father that's broken and, you know, angry, and at the same time doesn't know how to express to his daughter that he loves her. And at the very end of the movie, he ends up sacrificing himself so that his remaining children can escape. And the way he does that is how he kind of like gives this very loud cry so that the alien can get to him and then give his children enough time to escape. And before that, like the way he communicates, they communicate now by sign language because she's deaf and also because they don't want to talk.

And right as he's about to scream, he looks at his daughter and in sign language he tells his daughter, "I love you." I have always loved you. And he's described in the L.A. Kelsey movie. Once I was preaching this sermon, I kind of like using this as an example because part of the problem that we have in the world is that we don't fully understand that God, it's not only that he loves us, but that he's always loved us. There's no need to earn God's love. Listen, this might sound like a controversial thing. God didn't start loving you when Jesus died for your sins. God didn't start loving you when you repented and received salvation. God loved you before. Jesus said, "For God so loved the world that he gave his son." God loved you so that he sent his son.

God loved you so he died for you. When Jesus died on the cross, what is he saying? I love you. I have always loved you. You know one of the reasons why we have church every Sunday? It's not only so we can do this event and people can come and hear about Jesus, which is important. It's only so we can sing songs and learn more. It's because we forget. When the problems of life happen, when the conflicts of life happen, when we don't remain in God and don't spend time praying in the Word, it's so easy to forget that God loves us, that God has always loved us. So week after week, we gather together in a room, and we sing songs about the love of Jesus. And week after week, we are about to take communion, we take a piece of bread and we take a piece of wine to tell ourselves God loves us.

God has always loved us. And if you hear anything today, it's that. And as you open yourself to that love, you know what hasn't happened? That love is going to become a fruit in your life. Let's pray. God, words fail me to talk about your love. There's not enough ink. There's not enough. We have to basically reinvent the word to even begin to comprehend your love. And God, my prayer is that this morning, as we gather around the bread and the wine, that your spirit is the only one that can give us a full revelation of your love. We awaken something in our hearts. We open our eyes to the love that you have for us. We believe that you love us. You have always loved us. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.
