Resurrection Rumors: Of First Importance
2023-04-10
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UzZCar3IjgQ

in Jesus' name, amen, amen, amen, amen, amen, well I don't have the reverberated voice that our worship leader does, but I'll try it, he is risen, take that down with him, hallelujah, you know, one of my favorite things about Easter here at Canvas, there are a few of you who have decided to go cross radical culture here at Canvas, and get dressed up like me for church, wonderful, my mom is flipping over and doing breakfast, he's excited, so Ryan had a baby, first baby, how exciting, by the way, this July, I will have the privilege of having my first grandchild, and they have wisely chosen it to name it, that's you, which is good, but it's really causing me to kind of plunder the distinction between parents and grandkids, you know, think back to maybe when you had little kids, just maybe you went to

a restaurant, or if you didn't go to restaurants and you were little kids, and you've been at restaurants and you have little kids, and other people have little kids, and you know, when rather boisterous, loud children in restaurants would misbehave, back when they were my kids, when they were little, it created a response, a visual response of wide eyes and turned down mouth, and now as an approaching grandparent, I watch the same boisterous children running around, and it, it, it, the response is, plant the eyes and look for a mouth. It's kind of fun watching them, you know, because you're a grandparent, you know, get over there. You know, one of my, one of my favorite illustrations of the difference between parent and grandparent, he's a college friend of mine, he's a little bit farther than I am, he has seven or eight grandkids,

and they're older, but he posted a picture of his grandson, seven years old, eight years old, out in the woods, pouring a bow back with an arrow that's flaming moment. And his timeline was, different between parents and grandparents. Parents teach children to not shoot at trees with flaming arrows. Grandparents teach them how to do it.

It occurs to me now that I've been at this pastoral thing for a long time, and we have a, we have a young pastor and an older pastor, and I'm thinking back and forth, and this is not Ryan, this is me, but in my early days of pastoring, I pastored much more like a plant. My panties gotten a bunch about a whole lot of things. I mean, there were so many things that I got anxious about, and I felt this need to correct and to change and, and make sure they get it right, and, and, um, now I think I kind of can't, I'm going to transfer a little bit more left to dream to me. Quite frankly, there are a lot of things that are negotiable for me. A lot of things that we can disagree, a lot of things that I hear, I see, and I go,

okay, well, Lord, you work on them. And I don't feel overly nervous, um, because, you know, what does the work, what does the character get over those things? Now, don't misunderstand me. I desperately want to implement my grandkids' life. I really do. But it's not going to be about every little thing. Running around the restaurant in this car. I hope your parents, you know, raise them to be a respectful kid and to learn boundaries and all that kind of stuff. But, but there are deeper, more important character issues, faith issues, that, that for me, are non-negotiable. And those are the things that I really want to inculcate in my grandkids. Why am I sharing this? Because our passage for today is one of those things that, quite frankly, was full of hope. It comes in a book where Paul makes some rather casual comments in, in 1 Corinthians.

He says a number of things. And he talks about things that, well, you know, the Lord hasn't necessarily given me a commitment on this, but here's my thought and do as it were to with it. I mean, it's a little bit of a paraphrase, but I can show it to you in the Scriptures. So it's saying he didn't get overly worked up on. The immediate, conceding chapters of chapter 12, 13, and 14 were about spirituality and what it means to be a spiritual believer. And there were disagreements and debates about all kinds of spirituality and what they looked like. And if you remember, one of the issues back then was they wanted to speak in tongues. And he said, hey, that's great. You know, I speak in tongues more than all of you. But I like you to ask him to say something that made sense every now and then.

It's important that you do that through. And in fact, if you read it carefully, there was somewhat dealing with the super spiritual who were questioning his authority. And he said, and he said, okay, you know, it depends. And he said, well, you know, it depends. He doesn't get overly worked up. He gives the best instruction that he can. But when he gets to this chapter 15, he gets through it. And he says, but there's something, and he calls it a first important, there's something that's non-negotiable. There's something that's absolute. I mean, it is critical that we get it right. Now, to do this, I'm going to borrow a little bit from Gordon Spinn. He's an American, or was an American-Canadian scholar, taught at Wheaton, Gordon Conwell, a regent in Vancouver. He recently passed away in October of 2022.

He passed away. And he was an interesting guy. On his first day of his new test, he was known to stand up in front of the class and say, someday someone's going to tell you Gordon Spinn is dead. And then he would climb, seminary professor, climb up on top of his desk, and he'd say, don't believe it. Say that he is spitting with his Lord and King. And then he would, rather than passing on a syllabus, lead them all in a rousing flyer of oh, four thousand tongues to save. And there was a point that, well, Christian used to go, he said that they were asking about how you would describe a Christian. He said, well, I wouldn't say a Christian is someone who believes X and Y doctrine about Christ, but rather a Christian is someone who is filled with the Holy Spirit and committed

to their sins. There's this incredible sense of, of, it's not just what's up here, but it's, it's, what's in here? It's a brand here, it's here. It's not about how you're running around in a restaurant. It's about what's the deep, important, critical issues of character and life. And so, for a guy who would, would break protocol for most seminaries, most seminary professors get to see one of the best in reading songs. But on this one, I'm going to use a structure that he uses, because he, he acknowledges that Paul, when he gets to 1 Corinthians 15, says, okay, but we got used to here. He uses a structure called A, D, A, B. He makes a statement, and then he makes a few comments about it, and then he makes a statement again, and he makes a few comments about it that are

not the same as B, the statement A in O, the same A in A time, but B is, is, is, is, um, predicated on, on A. And so, in the first A, D, he said, I've made you known the gospel. The gospel that I preached to you. And he says, which you also received, it's a past-paced thing, it's something that's happened, you received it, in which you stand, it's a present-paced thing, it's something that you are thoroughly doing. And then, the, the verb that he uses has this continuous context to it, through which you are being saved. It's not just the present, but it's an ongoing reality of what God is doing. Through the gospel, you receive it, you stand on it, and you are being saved in the gospel. And he says it's so important that, go to the next slide, that you teach with A times and

B times, and I'm going to turn around it because I can't read it through the camera. And if what word I preached to you, is how did you will say it, unless you use it in vain? This is a non-negotiable peace proposal. And by the way, it is the foundation of our faith as followers of Jesus. It's a foundation. He has been cultured at this point to some Sadduceean believers. There are people who say yes to Jesus, but they were interconnected by a Sadduceean doctor. And you do know that all of us come to faith with baggage. And many of us come to believe our faith, sometimes more based on our wounds and our baggage than on our Bible. It's just it. And so, the discipleship process over the next several decades is God helping you reorient your thinking.

That it's not based on just your experience, but it's based on the word of God, what God says. And these Sadduceean believers, they weren't questioning the resurrection of Jesus, but the Sadducees didn't believe in resurrection. And so, these were like, well, yeah, Jesus was raised, but none of us will be. And Paul addresses that problem. And he says, it's a big problem. This is a grandparent issue. This is not just a kind of issue. And then he goes on to tell us what the gospel is. By the way, it's fascinating to me. Do you remember the pieces in the first, just like in 74, 13 something, somewhere in there, where, and we often use it at funerals, where we say that, you know, those who abide in the Lord will proceed us with the will.

The reason Paul wrote it was because there were, again, these believers who, they believed in the imminent return of Christ, and that's pretty true of every generation. People are convinced Jesus was coming in their generation. And I know that some of us believe that Jesus was coming in our generation. And he knows. Come Lord Jesus. Come quickly. I would love it. But the other generations that believed that, they were all wrong. Just that's why I don't know. So, these Thessalonians were convinced that Jesus was coming. And so, they, I mean, they gave it all. They lived, they lived all of it for reasons. They were all in for Jesus. And their struggle was, some of their friends who, who sacrificed it all, gave it all, to be part of Jesus' new kingdom, had died. And I'm like, ooh, they missed out.

And Paul was saying, no, no, they didn't miss out. They're going to rise too. It's like, they're going to rise before you do. Which, it's so fascinating to me that he actually wrote that letter from Corinth. So, he's in Corinth. And he writes that letter to this other church who's having this problem. And then he leaves Corinth. And he gets the letters from them. And some of the same problems are coming up. Some of the misunderstandings. And he says, whoa. Jesus is risen. He's risen indeed. So, here is the gospel. And by the way, probably Galatians was the first that Paul wrote, probably. Gentiles, Ephesians, Ephesians, Ephesians. Scholars argue that stuff. But this is always possible. And Paul is now going to tell you something that pre-built his letters.

I know that we're a non-credal church, but I'm going to give you a creed in the Bible. This is a biblical creed. It creeds Paul's apostleship. How do we know what he says? Part of the next slide. Here's the gospel. That he died. Why? That he was buried. Who? By which? Why is it important that he died?

Anyone lying proud? Why does it matter? Who cares? Well, it could be resurrected if he wasn't dead. That's true. But why let God? Well, there makes it a thing. This fear-required payment. God is just a sin in people. It's evil. It's wrong. It violates. And God doesn't just overlook it. He doesn't just put it under a carpet. God is just. God must deal with it. God is totally righteous, totally holy. And so, no one's going to pay. And God, in his instant love and wisdom, said, you'll never be able to pay. Jesus came. And so he said to his own son, God incarnate, to pay the penalty for our sin. It's the greatest gain. He who knew no sin became sin, that we might lower the righteousness of God in him. Jesus had to die.

That's point one of the Gospels. Point two, that he was buried. This is sort of an interesting one. Why is that important? Well, here's why it's important. He died. And he was buried. By the way, I mentioned he died. This is the evidence that, in fact, he died. He died. And it's like he was so dead, he was buried. And I mentioned that he died. So the gospel is he died. And, oh, by the way, he really died. He was buried. And then the third point here is he rose again. And the fourth point here is, and it was seen. By the way, that's his name as the buried one. He died. Did I mention he died? He rose. However, he was seen. Did I mention that he rose from the dead? Here's the gospel.

Jesus died for the remission of sin. And God expected that point in the resurrection. Now, let me get to the actual passage, and you'll see this outline in it. But I want to tell you why we're pretty sure that this predates Paul. In fact, this was the foundation of the church in the very early days when it was. Here's the word of it. You remember the early church. Those churches were the Old Testament.

Prior to 1 Corinthians, none of the Corinthians had read any of Paul's letters. He probably wrote to, but they weren't to them. So here's what he says. Now, brothers, I want to remind you of the gospel. I teach it to you which you receive, and in which you have taken your stand, by this gospel you are saved. If you hold firmly to the word, I teach to you, otherwise you believe in vain. Don't forsake the gospel. Okay. But what I received, I passed on. So Paul tells us, I received it. I got that. What I received, I passed on to you, and as of first importance, this is a grandparent issue. This is a non-negotiable. This is something I'll go to the wall for. This is the very foundation of our faith, of why we do what we do, of who we are.

And then he gives four stylistic statements. In your English Bible, it all begins with the word that, and you do it, it begins with the word lucky. And it's that he died, that he was buried, that he arose, and that he has been fooled. And so Paul tells us that he stated them, then he gives a very stylistic, creedal-type statement, and then it answers the way, many of exactly the highest concentration of words in anything that Paul ever wrote that are unique to this section. Scholars call non-Politanian words. It's kind of like if I would say, you think it's kind of best protest, but it's too much. You would suspect that I probably quoted that. Because we really haven't heard me talk like that. And so Paul gives this hateful, commendational doctrine that is not, it's not negotiable.

He's got it. It's investigated. It's environmentalism. Have you seen it? It's environmentalism. In fact, when he rose, he didn't start. By the way, this is one of the other reasons we know it's so early. Who was the first person that saw Jesus' risen from the dead? Someone said you over there. Mary, that's one. Yeah. Listen, I don't know if Paul didn't know that at this point. The gospel weren't written yet. All of it was audible. It was verbal. I don't know if he didn't know that. I don't know if he just didn't think about that. But he mentions Peter. And then he says, the rest of the apostles, the 12. I think it was 11 plus they added, I don't know if I remember that. So, the apostles was the 12. And then he's fine wondering.

And by the way, those five hundred are still walking around. If they're still wondering whether he rose again or not, you can check it out. They're still walking around. Go ask them. They saw him rise from the dead. Did I mention you? You raised again. And this is what he's trying to deal with in the church itself. There were a Christian and a man of eternity. And there were those who said, yes, he didn't have to do it. I said, no. If that's moving, Christ doesn't risen. And if Christ doesn't risen, then we're in major, major trouble. For what I receive, I can respond to you as a person for us. That Christ died for all things according to the Scriptures. That he was buried. That he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures.

And that he appeared to and gives a hold of the people. By the way, most times he says according to the Scriptures in the two settings of the road. He died according to the Scriptures. He was buried, i.e. he died. He rose according to the Scriptures. He was buried, i.e. he rose. Jesus is buried. Okay. This is what he says. So why did he die? Well, he had to pay the penalty for our sin. Why did he have to rise from the dead? And the Bible is full of lots of metaphors, folks. For our salvation. Our salvation is so much bigger than any one picture. It's so much more grandiose. It's so much more glorious. That any one image or picture doesn't fully catch it. And so the Bible talks about our salvation as though we're in a courtroom.

And we're guilty. And we have to pay. And the resurrection is, in fact, the receipt of commit received. That Jesus paid the gift and we rose, God said, accepted. That's where participation and expiation is going to be theological. But there's also, there's a picture of the battlefield. That we're, that we're in a battle. And, and in the battle, the resurrection is victory assured. We win. Are there any World War II, like this here? Anyone who likes World War II? We're still polarizing again. I'm telling you. So, you know, World War II, we talk about V-Day. And then we talk about V-Day. In a very real sense, Jesus' first coming, his crucifixion, and his resurrection is V-Day. It's gone. It's over. The allies have now won. The battle is determined. But between V-Day and V-Day, not all the Germans realize it.

And so there were still battles. There were still scornishes. There were still problems. But there was no doubt in anyone's mind, V-Day, decision-day, it was it. It was one. The cross and the resurrection was V-Day. Now, Jesus is coming back again. It's going to be V-Day, he is. And between V-Day and V-Day, we do have some scornishes. We do have some battles. We do have some struggles. We do have some problems. And, and, and they're real. It's a battle between V-Day and V-Day. It's a battle, it has been V-Day. It's been V-Day. And the resurrection states it clearly. And also the breathing room. Salvation is pictured like a breathing room. And the resurrection is that new life is granted. And last of all, if you use marketplace, do I sound like any water? I think it is.

That gives me more to it. You know, there's no one in the front seat. Don't be smart. That's why you're doing it in the water. By the way, we set up a whole bunch of extra chairs. And, because we're using them, we're going to take a bunch of those chairs down because rest of these are placed back there in the communion. What that means is, for those of you who regularly come, please, please, please, park far. And sit close. And don't just sit close as a site, but sit close to one another. I'll ask for the blood. There we go. Thank you. Everyone look over here. Here's how we want you to sit. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's really close. That's wonderful. I'll go. And once there's marketplace, but we've been redeemed. We've been bought back.

So the resurrection states very clearly came and accepted. Victims showed, new life created, redemption has been made. And we've been seeing Peter 12, 500 games. There's one with Paul. It's really interesting. And so how did your Bible call Paul one born out of time? Something like that. The word there is actually, that's translated, miscarriage. A lot of miscarriage. And some believe that it was actually an epitaph that the spiritual inquiries were throwing at Paul. And that's why Paul says, I'm the least among the apostles. They would say, yeah, he wasn't one of the original 12. And they're the spiritual, and they know better. And so there's this, you know, really, you just deal with that all the time. You do realize that, you know where when all men think well of you? There's always someone who God sends to keep you humble.

There's always someone. And so they think that there were actually, there were people who were trying to criticize Paul, were working against Paul, saying, no, no, no, this, this, we get to rise again from the dead like Jesus. No, no, no, no. And Paul's saying, yeah, so, that's fine. Call me a miscarriage. I'm a miscarriage. Because I'm the least among your apostles. Like, I persecuted the saints. Like, let me tell you, I'm only what I am, and by the grace of God. And some people go and say, and by the way, I'm the miscarriage that you heard the gospel from, and they know you are sorry. Folks, this is the statement of the gospel. I don't deserve it. Jesus paid it. I don't deserve it. He accepted it. And because of it, now Paul can say, so nevertheless, I am an apostle, and I can speak the truth, because not because it's more of you.

I'm the least among the gospel. But because it's who he is and what he has done. It's him. It's what he's done. Okay. Then he goes on to tell us in verse 14, 15, 17, 18, that if you're not risen from the dead, preaching means nothing. So when I was first out of seminary before we planted church, we moved to the Milwaukee area, and Laura was finished in college, and I didn't want to take any church money to help plant at the church until I was pretty sure it was going to happen. And so I went and found a job, and it was a job that let me work 50 hours on the weekend, and then I had Mondays and Thursdays, and I could meet people. I used to teach women with little kids, because you meet lots of parents, and you teach women with little kids, and you get to know them.

It's just a way to make connections, and start Bible studies, and try to reach out to people, and let them know about the gospel, and know it to be well. And so those early days, my second Job, I worked for Lutheran Social Services as an expertical therapist. And I was stumped when the leader of the Kenosha Lutheran Social Services, he was from, you know, the Lutherans, they're very conservative Lutherans, and they're very liberal Lutherans, on the way across. And this group happened to be on the far of the liberal side, I don't know which one it is. And I remember saying something about the resurrection, and he said, oh, you can believe that if you want. And I said, well, yeah, you can believe that or not believe if you want, but if you're a Christian, you believe it.

And if you don't believe it, you're not a Christian. This is a game plan you see. This is an absolute, because our false faith is predicated. The only reason we can receive our salvation is because God said amen to Jesus' death on your cross. Because God said, be saved, accepted, valedictive. He's a liar.

If Jesus is not risen, Paul says, my preaching is nothing, verse 14. He says, if Jesus is not risen from the dead, your faith means nothing, verse 14 and 17. In fact, if Jesus is not risen from the dead, verse 15, we're liars. If Jesus is not risen from the dead, verse 17, your sins are not forgiven. We're yet in our sins. Now, I realize we live in a culture that wants to give trophies to everyone. I realize that we live in a culture that has a tough time sometimes understanding how a loving God could ever condemn anyone. And it, quite frankly, it's more of a, remember I said earlier that we often live out of our culture and our experience and our wounds and out of our biblical theology? The Bible is very clear that we need a Savior.

If you're good enough without him, then his death made no sense. It's just a word very, so it's interesting, Abraham Hessel, a famous Jewish scholar, was at this one time, how can you possibly justify that loving God in light of the Holocaust? If you look at the Holocaust, it's so beautiful. I mean, if you've ever studied the Holocaust, the atrocities that were performed on a Greekist people because they didn't like their ethnicity, it's holistic. And so they're asking the question, how can you justify a loving God based on that, as though that was God's fault? And Abraham Hessel wisely responded, oh, you asked the wrong question. The question is not, how can man justify God in light of the Holocaust? The real question is, how can God justify many in light of the Holocaust? Folks, the only answer is Jesus' death and resurrection. Easter Sunday is a debt he has paid it all and he took it. He's one of you.

Verse 18, those who are already God, it's over with, and the rest who goes on in verse 19, if Jesus was not risen from the dead, we of all people are most miserable. And then he goes on to make sure they don't miss it. Verse 20, and I'll read it for you. But Christ has indeed been raised from the dead.

That's where we get our, he is risen. He is risen. He is risen. He is risen. That doesn't return from it. He is indeed risen. Thin, defeated. Dominion of evil, defeated. The plan of authority, defeated. In fact, death itself, oh, death, where is thy sin? Deceited. It's the resurrection of Jesus. That's the verses 1 through 11, which we read today, the gospel, what is so essential, what is so important, which is non-negotiable. It's a grand point of issue. It's what we pour our life out for, not the trivial stuff. We could fight over that. But this is essential. And then verse 12 through 34, to unconfident that means, in every section in here, he ends with the same concept. If this is true, it's the key is what he's saying. If Jesus is really risen from the dead, if the sacrifice has been accepted and has been extended to you, and life is an action for you, new life is an action for you, it should, it should know.

It should affect the way we live. Verse 3 and 4, he says it this way. So, come back to your senses and stop sinning. You know, as a pastor, I hate saying what to say. Stop sinning. Just stop sinning.

I mean, for your goodness. Now I realize this sin is prevalent. I get it. We're full on people. And there's abundant grace. There's abundant mercy. You've heard me say this before, and I'll say it again. I'll probably say it a hundred times between now and the time we no longer see each other. There is abundant forgiveness for sin, but there is no forgiveness for sin. There's no provision. And so can you say it? So, thank you. So, thank you. And then, the second section, I believe in 58 and 2, hearing me besides that everyone called the more positive note, let me read it for you. Therefore, my dear brothers, therefore, Jesus died and he has risen from the dead. He's risen indeed. He's absolutely risen. He's one. We're full of it. We're constant in all of it.

He's been seen by others. It's an absolute truth. It's what we base our faith on. And so, therefore, brotherly, here's the one. Let nothing move you. Always give yourself fully to the work of the Lord because you know that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. Now, if you've been here for, as a Christian for a couple years or a couple decades, you know that there are times when you have a sense of, what am I doing? I've often said that, you know, so we go through different stages in the ministry. And the first phase of ministry is, it's always, what am I doing? You know, you're not used to be doing something. You're not quite sure what it is, but you're not used to be doing something. And what you're trained for is not what you end up actually doing.

Ministry is not what they told you it was going to be. I remember my first new year, some women came to me and asked if I would speak at the women's gathering on banner making. I'm like, sir, I'd be happy to do that. I know nothing about things. Why? Because I was looking at this videoistically. I don't want to make a business. You want to do something. They say that the second phase for pastors, ministers, leaders, and it's true of all kinds of leadership. It's not what am I doing, but the question becomes, do I want to keep doing what I'm doing? And so, at some point, you realize, you need to say, pick up your cross and follow me. It means serving equals pain. But there's challenge in loving others. There's difficulty in serving others.

But sometimes, the people who are most challenging are those that you toward your life and see the most. I don't know what you're afraid. It's a powerful thing, right? And yet, part of leadership. Do you know that Jesus gave communion to Judas on the very day that he was going to betray them, and he was going to wash his feet? It's part of ministry. But the last thing for people in leadership is, I just want to make a job. They want to leave. They want to be friends. They want to do what my life is. It's part of the game. I can't think. I don't want to raise my kids. My grandkids. They want to say, I don't want to make a decision. Yeah, they know me. There's a grandparent out there. But I want to make a decision.

Therefore, my dear brothers, gain from, but nothing means you, always giving yourself fully to the work of the Lord, because you know, you know, so this is the message of the resurrection, folks. In the deepest moment of Jesus. He's risen. He's risen. He's risen. Someone said earlier on that, you know, why do you have to die where you can't raise if you didn't die? That's true. Every resurrection is disputed by a death. Every resurrection in your life is disputed by a death, but, well, you know, because you know that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. You know, the Jews really struggled with the Lamb's Supper. Last night we did an upper ring service here. And we re-invented the meal, the communion, and foot washing. We had tables set up. It was really nice.

It felt, you know, we had fights of our leader in. Men washed men's feet. Women washed men's feet. The real beauty was when couples washed one another's feet. And it was because when Jesus did his whole family, he said, you know, bless her in this and do these things. Here's the deal. The Jews at the end were, the apostles at the end were really confused. They had given their whole life to follow Jesus for three years. They saw him in the red hills. They saw him in thousands with just a couple loads of bread and a couple cents. They saw demon-possessed people, demons cast out, and the crazy restored to normalcy. They saw someone actually raised from the dead, a friend of theirs, who had been in the kill for four days, cast the possibility of resurrection.

Jesus actually waited a few extra days to make sure it was past their expectations, just so he could do it and they could see the glory of God. They watched it, and they were expecting Jesus to come in and fulfill their vision of setting up the kingdom. The challenge was that they had a wrong concept of the kingdom. You see, that kingdom, it won't be due as three things. When? And to when? The kingdom may reject the land of Israel back. It was under the rule of the Romans. And Jesus, the Messiah, with his right-hand and left-hand man, we're on the inner circle, and he's going to bring the land back to us. And he didn't. And it's about the people. Yeah, it's the Jewish, it's the Jewish, it's the Jewish, all of us people, our tribe, the Messiah is going to come.

And all of a sudden, Jesus was talking about this kingdom that is beyond the land of Israel, and it's beyond a tribe of people. And look at the king. Remember King David? He led his armies out, and he won this, and he won that battle, and he won this, and he controlled, and we had authority. Those Romans were lost. See what he did with that weapon over there? Wait till he gets to those Romans. And Jesus said, let me show you my battle, please. And he took a hold. And he watched this week. All right. But let's be honest with you, folks. For the apostles' vision of what they were expecting, and what Jesus was doing and saying, he was talking about. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're setting up the kingdom here, Lord. Oh, I am.

I am. I'm setting up the kingdom. I'm going to be glad. Wait, wait, those don't equate. They don't make sense. What's your plan? Let me tell you. We're going to wash feet. We're going to serve people in a loving way, and it's going to radically transform everything around you. They had no truth. It's why after you died, you find them fighting. It's why after you died when the women came running back, and they said, we saw him alive. No, you didn't. Two of them did run to the tomb because they heard his body was going. But they didn't believe. And why would I believe those women? She had seven demons passed out of the world. She met. Radical different battle plan. But you know there's a second bullet in the biblical text. And I think it's the picture of what do we do with the resurrection.

So the disciples, they didn't understand the disciples. They didn't understand where it was going. They were living in fear in their head. But they still did that. I don't know what this means. But in the midst of my confusion, I'm going to believe. And then when they saw him living from the dead, they literally changed the world. But you're on a second bullet, don't you? The second bullet was a bullet with credit. Part of that, too, is pretty convinced that Jesus was someone special. If you read the story, he tried multiple times to get out of condemning Jesus. At first, he said, you have no reason to condemn him. And they got all upset. And they yelled, my skin was fine. You were from Galilee. I said, you know, Herod. I didn't look. Because Herod sent him back.

And so he said, oh, but, you know, you guys want to let go of someone. You're not Barabbas, God. I mean, everyone here did Barabbas. Who do you want me to get back? Barabbas. The leaders. The Lord ever worked three times. His own wife said, don't you do it. I had a dream like that. He's someone special. You know he's someone special. You've lost the way he behaves in front of you. You've lost, even in the moment when you say you can condemn him, he was in control. And you could see it. Don't do it. And the ball for Judas, his response to the resurrection, or what would become the resurrection, was wash of hands. He just gave it to you. It's kind of delusion of duty.

I think in the feasting season, that we have a choice of two boys, folks. He's risen. He's risen indeed. He's absolutely risen and is the center of our faith. If you don't believe he's risen, you can't get to hang out with us, but to be honest. And I don't want to do it. Because the resurrection is essential. It's essential. Michelle, in a few weeks, is going to talk about the evidence of the resurrection. We're going to be doing a series on resurrection rumors, and we're going to be looking at the eye-witness appearance of Jesus' resurrection, post-resurrection, over the next couple of weeks. But the way that you say, I believe, and I'm saved because of it. I've been transformed because of it. I've been changed because of it. Which ball do you go to, Kim?

Because I'm sure you have issues in your own life, challenges in your own life, that call you in the question of how you're going to deal with them as a Christian.

Because, if you're not everyone, maybe some of you are in the season of the life, later as long as you can. It is coming. But which ball do you choose to be? The ball of the footworms, or the ball of the footworms, or the ball of the footworms? Not my party. Not my family. Worshiping, can you come forward? If anyone's anything that applies, let's aim on a good rate. Please don't let me. He is risen. Amen.
