Like No Other: I AM the Light of the World
2023-10-09
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VCju0lMapW8

In Jesus' name, amen.

Okay, so we've been in John a while now, and we've taken a couple really deep dives. We've taken a couple third-grade oversight of the passage. Today, if I were to do this passage on just the surface level, it would be really simple. The world is dark. The world's dark. We can't see. There's moral corruption all over the place. It's a scary place. The world is dark. I don't have to convince you of that. It's dark. And Jesus said, I'm the light. The world's dark. Jesus is light. If you follow him, you'll get to see. Okay, so this would be done lunchtime. That's a simple flyover. And it's true. And God is calling some of us just to receive that, and we're good to go. But today, if you will allow me, if you will allow me, I'd like to go a little deeper on this passage.

Because there's a lot going on here. And if I'm going to do that, I'm going to have to kind of function as a bit of a core guide to the gospel of John. We're going to have to back up and look at some of the main things that John is doing, bringing us to this climatic statement of, I am the light of the world. Point number one. Did you notice in the reading that there was a little opposition in the Scripture? So, in John 7, John begins to give a voice to the opposition of Jesus. Prior to that, some opposition or some question makers, they're heard, they're there in the story. Nicodemus asks a few questions of Jesus, because not really opposition, just uncertainty. The pool of Bethesda, Jesus does this amazing thing. And there's opposition, but not with Jesus, it's with the man who's healed.

And Jesus goes up and talks. But John really doesn't give a voice to Jesus' detractors until we get to chapter 7. And in chapter 7 and following, and I'm in 8, and I'm going to argue that 7 and 8 is actually one big section. And so, chapter 7 and chapter 8, it's one of the largest sections of one of the shortest times in Jesus' life. It's probably just one or two days. And John pulls out a whole lot since 7 and 8, and I'm getting ahead of myself. So, in this context, as we're coming up to 8, verse 12, there isn't a tip of opposition. Those who are opposed to Jesus begin to have a greater voice. By the way, Mike, you make an awesome choice, you know. That was right on. That was good.

That was what I was hoping for. And Dave, you're in OK Jesus. That's good. There's kind of a hint in this opposition that we'll see on top over the next 12 chapters that Jesus' days are numbered. On this. In a number. OK. Number two. If you have your Bible, you can turn to John 1, and I'm going to reference it. And so, for those of you who are linguists, or who are English majors, or if you're a homeschool mom, this will make sense to you. The rest of us, you can ignore the next two sentences I make, and then we'll pick it back up. The word coming, in verse 1, 9, can be translated either as a neuter nominative or a masculine accusative. I know that's a mouthful. The point is that the way the word is structured, it legitimately can be easy.

And to those who are English majors, you get it. To those of you who remember your eighth grade English, you get it. To those who teach it, like from school moms, you absolutely get it. So, here's the verse. And I'm going to, it really comes down to whether the word was is put in the verse or not. Chapter 1, verse 9. The true light, by the way, who's the true light? Thank you. Okay. The true light that gives light to every melon was coming into the world. So, that's taking it as though coming into the world is modifying the true light. It's an incarnation. Jesus is coming into the world. An equally legitimate translation. My Quaker brethren stand on this verse. I actually like where they go with it. It's the true light that gives light to every man coming into the world.

In other words, the true light gives enough light to every human who comes into the world to be able to respond to the true light. Which way, well, so, if you think of incarnation, it can sit on either side of the theological divide. If you think the latter one, it favors one particular one. And the real question, the fourth of us, Christianity says that you cannot come to God on your own. You don't have capacity. You can't even recognize the truth of God without divine assistance. That we are so fallen, we are so broken, there is so much darkness that we can't even see it. And the question becomes whether God only gives it to some people or whether he gives to everyone this light that allows them enough light to be able to recognize the true light.

And so those who take the latter perspective, this one mind supports them. By the way, one of the quick practices that I'm using, I don't know if I've shared this before, but if I have, it's worked on me again. You know that I have one grand son out of the womb, back in July. I have a second son who's kicking at the edge of the womb. This week, sometime between now and the 15th, he is coming, voluntarily or involuntarily. And my wife is on call. She's going to come. travel on down there. Five moments of many. Laura was telling me about this and how she's going to change our plans. I'm like, no, no, it's great. She said, well, our daughter, she wants her mommy. I said, that's great. I'm glad. She said, no, no, she wants her

mommy. I said, no, I guess that. That's great. That's awesome. I think that's awesome. No, she wants her mommy. Translated, Matthew, not inviting us. That's okay. I get it. When he's one, you can't keep me away. Anyways, she's going to be going down there and she's going to be hanging out with him and I have no idea why I just told you that. Oh, yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. There's always someone who will say to me, Hallelujah. So, a practice that I was born when Matthew, my firstborn, when I saw him came in July, I got to spend a few days with him. Only a few, more about the week. But I started a practice, it's a quicker practice of just taking notes of his personality, of things that I just see in him.

Even at, you know, two days, he begins to behave and act and respond and just taking notes. So, that's 18 years. Every time I'm with him, I'm going to take some notes about the ways that people respond and he edits and he behaves. And then when he's 18 years old, I'm going to take those notes, pile them up, and then I give them to him and say, "You know, Matthew, over the last 18 years, your parents have worked hard to form you." And they've done a great job forming you. Your peers have worked to form you. The environment has worked to form you. And all of that is wonderful. But sometimes, they kind of put stuff on you that's not you. And God made you to be who you are. He gave you a personality.

You were formed in your mother's womb. And I think that God actually gives enough rights for you to even respond. And so, there's this, not just that we're reading the image of God, but there's a supernatural connection. And so, I'm giving you these notes because now as you're 18, you're trying to figure out who you are. And I'm hoping they might help you make up the community this year, as you look back at who you were for the last 18 years. And I also prefer this, that, you know, we're even going to read the way that the single term is intervening in grace, because I think the Scripture says that it's not God's will that any should carry, but that all should come to repentance. For God so loved the world, the believers only got the son, that whosoever, they did.

But that's a side issue. The point here is that there's been an uptick of opposition, but in this verse, there seems to be at least an indication that God is already dying, that God wants to die, that God desires to die. And the reality is that our perception matters. Did you ever say the phrase, "perception is reality"? And usually we use that regardless. You know, "perception is reality" meaning, well, it's not really true, but because you think it's true, it must be true. Well, I want to just read a section from a book that I'm reading by Paul's surprise funniest writer, he wrote "A Nice World", and he does a thought experiment at the very beginning of his book. Of course, I have my marker in the wrong spot. So, imagine with me there's a room, a big gymnasium, and in that room there's an elephant.

But along with this elephant in this school gym, now imagine a mouse is scurried in two, and a robin hops alongside it, and now a perch is in an overhead beam. A bat hangs upside down from the ceiling, a rattlesnake slivers across the floor, a spider who spawn a web in the corner, and a mosquito buzzes through the air as a bumblebee sits upon a potted sunflower. And then finally, amidst the death, the name of Rebecca, a few minutes. So the elephant raising his trunk at the periscope, the rattlesnake splits throughout his tongue, the mosquito cuts through the air with its antenna, and all three are smelling the space away in them. They're picking the floating scents, the elephant's niff, nothing of note. The rattlesnake becooked toward the trail of a mouse, and coils its body in an ambush.

The mosquito smells the alluring carbon dioxide of Rebecca's breast and the aroma of its skin. It remains on the arm, ready for a meal, but before it can bite, she slaps it away, and her slap disproves the knife. It squeaks an alarm at a pitch that is unaudible to the belly. Too high for the elephant. Meanwhile, the elephant, I don't know what I mean. It squeaks an alarm at a pitch that is audible to the belly. Sorry. But too high for the elephant to hear. The elephant, meanwhile, unleashes a deep thunderous roar. Too low pushed for the mouse's ears or the back, but felt by the vibrations of the sensitive belly of the rattlesnake. Rebecca, who is oblivious to both the ultrasonic mouse squeak and the intrathonic elephant rumble, makes its skull to the robin, which is singing at frequencies very suited to her ears.

But his hearing is too slow to pick out the complexities. The robin's chest looks red to Rebecca, but not to the elephant, whose eyes are limited by blue and yellow only. The bumblebees can't see red either. But it's central to the ultraviolet seeds that lie beyond the opposite end of the rainbow. The sunflower, fixed upon it, has a specter of ultraviolet bullseye, which grabs the attention of both the bird and the bee. The bullseye is invisible to Rebecca, who thinks the flower is only yellow. Her eyes are the darkest in the room, unlike the elephant in the bee. She can spot the small spider sitting upon its web, but she stops seeing much of anything when the lights go out in the room and plunges it into darkness. Rebecca walks slowly forward, hones outstretched, hoping to feel obstacles in her ways.

The mouse stays the same, but with whispers on its face that freaks back and forth and nights its surroundings. As it skitters between Rebecca's seats, its footsteps are too faint for her to hear, but they're easily audible to the owl. The owl ports overhead. The owl, because of the asymmetry of its ears, can pinpoint the force of the mouse sitting in both vertical and horizontal planes. It flops just as the mouse blunders within range of the waiting rattlesnake. Using two bits of its snout, the snake can sense infrared radiation that emanates from warmth. You get the point. There's all kinds of things that are going on, some of which we see, some of which we deceive, and some of which we don't perceive. Why is that important for us? Because do you know what Jesus said?

Unless the person is born again, they cannot perceive the kingdom of heaven. If there is a spiritual reality, a whole kingdom that is only perceptible by the effects that go on around you, until you actually plunge into the kingdom to be able to see. A good illustration might be, if you've ever seen water bubbling, if you're a fisherman of tuna, you look for the bubbling of water in a flock of birds over top of the bubbling of water. You can't see underneath, but you know what's going on underneath. There's actually a bunch of tuna and maybe a swordfish that's corralling all of these fish and pushing them toward the surface so that they can see. And only if you were to take a mask and plunge underneath the water would you even see what's going on underneath.

That when we are born again, there is a new recognition. And so the ripples in creation in our conscience, in your Christian friend, in the classrooms and Scriptures, even though you don't understand them, they resonate with you, can draw you to the kingdom. But it's when you take that step underneath the water that your perceivers are unable to see the kingdom that's going on around you. So the first point was, did you recognize reptics in the opposition? The second point on our Torah is that this coming gives us an ability to begin to perceive that only when we step underneath the water do we truly understand and see. Number three, in the Gospel of John, Jesus identifies as a pulmonary light here on the earth. Let me read them for you. Jesus said, I will wish you for only a short time, and then I'm going to the one who sent me.

John 7, 33. John 9, 5. While I'm in the world, I am the light of the world. John 12, 35. Then Jesus said to them, you are going to have the light just a little while longer. Walk while you have light, before the darkness ever takes you. And in the very next verse, believe in the light while you have the light. In the Gospel of John, Jesus is the light of the world, but there is this opposition that is growing, and there is him as the light in the world, it's temporary.

People, I'm going to go to receive it, but it's temporary. Okay. Now we're going to get to our chapter. Chapter 7, verse 6, all the way to the end of 8, is actually one or two days in the life of Jesus. This is at the Feast of Tabernacles. Ryan asks us to pray for Israel. So those of you who know what's going on in Israel right now, that's the one who said we're at war. The Mosque has filed rockets into Israel, and they actually sent ground suits across the border. So there is war there. And they chose the end of the Feast of Tabernacles. The Feast of Tabernacles that we're actually talking about in modern day, ended on Friday. And then there's an eighth day to the Feast of Tabernacles. They call it something else, but it is from an Old Testament passage that says, "On the eighth day in stock, it shall be for you."

And the Jews that translated that understood that to be that there's a Sabbath after the Feast of Tabernacles, that there is this Sabbath and that there is no rest. That's why Hamas chose to invade at that time. And I'm not going to talk about that. But that's the context for Israel. We are in the Feast of Tabernacles. It's one of the three Jewish celebrations that Jews are required to go to Jerusalem and to celebrate. It commemorates God's deliverance of the people of God from slavery at that moment, Egypt, into the Promised Land. It's a deliverance. And Jesus is going to put that in a long talk during this time. Okay. One more piece that we need to pour before we can get right to the passage. John, climbing now. Now, if at this point you are saying, "I'm not."

I mean, this tour is getting blurry. Um, remember that I started with the world of his dark, Jesus is right, follow him and you will see, and we can go for life. But we gave you something good. Just for those who want to go a little deeper, John in the Gospel of John is present. You will remember this from the sermons you've already heard. Uh, 2, verse 4, the wedding at Tina. Mary wants him to turn water into wine. She wants him to provide wine. And what does Jesus say to her? "You're a woman, not my time. My time is not in heaven." If you jump over to 4:21 and 22, there's a Samaritan woman, and they're having this conversation, this dialogue back and forth. And he says, "Well, a time is coming." Once a time is coming, when you're not going to worry about worship is on this mountain or that mountain.

The obviously doesn't matter. But a time is coming when worship will be in spirit and in truth. Because a time is coming. And then in chapter 5, verses 25 through 28, right after the ceiling at the pool of Bethesda, and Jesus launching into this long monologue afterwards. He says, "The time is coming and has come." And then he talks about salvation. And then he says it again. "The time is coming." And in the next section around verse 28, he's talking about judgment. That the time is coming and he's come for salvation. But there's also a time coming of judgment. But pay attention. Because time is coming. And then in the beginning of this section, the truth is tabernacles. And then again becomes really important. So, they're all supposed to go to Jerusalem. Again, that's what they're supposed to do.

His brothers say to him, "You've been doing all these miracles, right? With just small little groups of people." And you're, you know, we think you're the Messiah. And don't you think it makes sense that you should do these miracles in front of everyone? I mean, if you're the Messiah, let's declare yourself as a Messiah in front of everyone. And the Feast of Tabernacles is coming up. So, how come you're not getting ready? Let's go! We're all going to the Feast of Tabernacles, and you can do this stuff, and Israel will realize that you're the Messiah. And Jesus responds, "You go to the Feast." I'm not yet going to the Feast. Because for me, the right time has no yet time. The opposition is growing. And Jesus knows that when he begins at the Feast, that opposition is going to have a loud voice.

It's going to try to stifle what he wants to say. It's going to try to get in the way of what he's doing. And so, he just kind of holds back. He says, "You go. I'll show up." He does eventually show up. He teaches for a little while. And then we pick up, in verse 37 of chapter 7, on the last day of the Feast. The seven days. And commentators debate whether this last day is the seventh day, or whether it is the eighth day. The same thing is happening. During the Feast of Cabernet, who knows what they did? What did they do? Yeah, they built these votes. "That's why all the men got to go. We got to live in tents for a week." You know? So, they were building tents, they were building tents, and they would live outside in these huts as a commemoration

that when God delivered them from slavery, he took them to the Promised Land. But it was a long journey. And they had to live in tents until God brought them into the Promised Land. And so, they said, in fact, Lori and I, just the other day, we saw some guy with a pickup truck, and he had his tent, he was traveling up in the back of his pickup truck. And something about the cult, celebrating the cult. It was kind of cool to see. I was having my camera. I was taking a picture. He showed it to me. So, on this last day now, they spent seven days living in tents. There's been other things going on. One of the things going on is what they call a celebration of libation. The people would go down to the pool of Siloam.

Some of you might remember this from Hezekiah's Day. He was the one that built the tunnel, and there was a pool down there. And if you've ever been there, it's actually a pretty long walk. You've got to go up down the hill with outside the old city, and they built walls around it, and you catch the water. And they would grab water, and they would bring it up, and they would pour it at the temple for people to drink. Now, the pool of Siloam was closed through the temple, and it was used as waters of purification. It was waters of cleansing. And so, on this feast during the seven days, they would go get this water in this logon. It's like a fancy picture, kind of showing this. And they would get the water, and they would pour it, and they would celebrate by drinking.

But on the last day, the water thing was done. It had done it throughout the whole feast, but it's over. No more. The people had been watching it every day. It's done. And in that context, Jesus stands up, and He says, "I don't know when you're thirsty. Come." Now, I really searched. I couldn't find it in any – I don't have access to a good geological library. I'm sure someone has a suspicion. I don't know who all got to drink of that water. I don't know if it's just the priests, or else the people. But I promise you that everyone didn't get to drink of it. They got to watch people drink of the water of cleansing and purification. They got to watch this celebration. And now, as it has ended, Jesus has chosen now to come, and now to teach, and now to stand up and show everyone who is thirsty, come to Me and drink.

And then He says, "Whoever believes in Me," as the Scripture has said, "Rivers of living water will flow from within them." By this He met the Spirit, who those who believed in Him were later to receive. Jesus said, "Your thirsty, come to Me, drink. And when you drink of Me, you will become a fountain of water. You will become your own pool of Siloam." But the pool of Siloam actually came from a spring that was outside of Jerusalem, and Hezekiah had built a tunnel from this all the way into the city in order so that when they were attacked, they would have water in the city. And then He covered over that old spring. "You will become a spring." By the way, this is critical to understanding our passage today. Because Jesus is not just saying, "I'm going to crunch your thirst."

But He's saying, "I'm going to crunch your thirst in such a way that you will become a thirst cruncher for others." "You will actually become a spring." There's a second celebration going on, and Jesus addresses it too. This is a celebration of life, and I'm going to read, not as a long of a section, but I'm going to read some C.K. Barrett. This is a classic commentary. Barrett is a Brainerd scholar, and he's referencing some documents about this celebration of life. This is, the picture here is a depiction of the temple. And you remember that the temple had, oh here, let me do a little arrows in here. The Holy of Holies would be back in here, and then the holy place in here, and then this is the place. So, out here is the temple of the court of the women, and out here is the nations.

So, if you were not Jewish, you couldn't go in any of it. If you were an Israelite, man or woman, you could go in here. If you were a man, you could go just behind it, there's a short little section for men who women can't go. If you were a priest, you could go back here. And if you were the priest of the day, you could go here. And if you were the high priest, you could go in there once a year. It was, it was very bounded. It was very organized, very structured. And so, in this court of the women, which is not just for the women. It means the women were allowed to go there. Every Israelite, everyone who was part of the people of God would go. And here is what happened.

This court describes the ceremony of the festival day of the feast. In the court of women, there were golden candlesticks, with four golden bowls on top of them, and four roddies to each candlestick. They made wits from the worn-out drawers and girdles of the priests for their raiment, and with them spent the candlesticks alike. And there was not a courtyard in Jerusalem that did not reflect the light of the house of the water drawing. Also, men of piety and good works, during the lighting of these candles, would dance before them with burning torches in their hands, singing songs of praise. The picture here is, every night during the Feast of Cabernet, they had candles. They weren't a sort of ice, they were like a story house. And they had big bowls on them. The bowls were so big that the wits were the raiment of the priests that they would crisp together to make a wick.

And they would light them, and the men would dance with lights, and it would shine light into every courtyard in Jerusalem. Everyone saw the blaze of this light, and on the last day of the feast, this celebration has now ceased. And I can see it again for another year. This unbelievable, wonderful time of celebrating a life that lights everything. With everyone bouncing and rejoicing, in the end, it's over. It's like it's been. And there's a thought point that Jesus said in the light of the light of the world, and whoever follows me will never walk in darkness. And there's a thought point that Jesus is in light of everything else I've said so far. Because this is really important. We're no longer walking darkness, but we'll have the light of life. In other words, Jesus is not just lighting your life, but he is giving you a light that lights life.

You become, just like, come to me if you're thirsty, drink, you will be refreshed, and you will become a fountain of living water. I am the light of the world, but I'm temporary, I'm going. But if you come to me, I will give you the light, and you will have the light. You're no longer looking to just reflect the light, but the light is actually in you. And just like the fountain flows, you're light. What's that? By the way, some of you are thinking, really? Is this really true? Is this from New Doctor who's speaking? You guys know this question. In fact, I'm going to test it here, just seeing as you know it. But I need to do kind of a generational test here. Okay? I'm not going to embarrass you, but if you're my age, you'll remember this poem.

So I'm just going to ask you to spin, just so I know if I've got people who've got my back or not. And then we'll sit down. If you're 60 or older, please, and then for a second. If you're asking for 20 seconds, there's one. Okay. Oh, there's one back there waiting for me. That's good. Okay. Okay. That's good. And then, you say something. And then if you, like, grew up, you feel like in your 30s, and you grew up in the church, but it was you 60 or plus-year-old people who actually did your Sunday school, or they did your vacation Bible school, or they taught you all the songs. Would you sing? Okay. Okay. You can sing. And do you all know this song? Okay. Sing it with me. This little light of mine, I'm going to let it shine.

Okay. Hold on. Second verse. Hold on. Let's think. Think. See it out. I'm going to let it shine a third verse. Hold it under a bushwalk. No. Yeah, you get it. This is not a new doctrine, folks. It's been around for a long time. You are the light of the world. The light of the world was walking on earth so he could shine light, and he said, "Well, I'm here, get it." He said, "Now you become that light so that others can get it." It's a profound statement. You do know, I mean, this has been in the Scriptures from the very beginning, all the way back in Genesis. God tells the people that Genesis can be pictured as an hourglass that goes from everything all the way down to one person, Abraham, in chapter 20.

And then from Abraham, it expands back out to become a people of God who will eventually reach the world. Here's what he says. "I will make you an Abraham." One guy. "I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you." By the way, we love that question. Don't we? God, make me great. God, make me great. I'm tempted to go not down. Make me great. Bless me, Father. Okay? I will make your man great. And then here's the kicker. And you will be a blessing. And all the peoples of the earth will be blessed for you. Folks, we are a kingdom outpost. We are a host of people who have drunk deeply from the well of the Spirit of God. And because we've drunk deeply from the well of the Spirit, the well actually resides within us.

And the Spirit of God becomes a fountain to all those who are around you who are thirsty. That you have seen the light, and because you've seen the light, you now have the light. You possess the light. That you too, like Jesus, might sign and make a difference. Remember when Ryan started this whole message series? He started with the things of the judgment, where John tells us why he chose to write what he did about Jesus. He said, you know, "If I wrote everything Jesus did and all the books will write from heaven." But it shows you me for a very specific purpose. So that you might believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God. And if I believe in you, you might have a light. You might actually fall out of the light of life.

And this is, folks, I know we want to personalize it and I get the light. And that's true. That's almost half the kids. I get the life that I might be a life giver in my community. Friday night, with all those kids, the purpose was 19 years. But it was a great pool of people who need to see the light. And they might see the light if they come on Sunday and hear a sermon and it's really good and hear a good worship song. But they don't wish to. Because you've got the light. You don't get to be the light. You can't. That's why these things have been written. Okay, let's recap. Jesus' days on earth are numbered. And everyone gets enough light to recognize the true light. Everyone you go and you talk to about Jesus having us.

To respond to the word of God. Now, I realize that some people hate the light. And they don't come to the light because their deeds will be exposed. And they don't want their deeds exposed. But they still see it. I post the testimony. And I avoided the light for a long time because I really loved my evil deeds. Then it's fun. It's fun for a season. And the time that season ends, if you realize, man, I need some light. I need some fresh water. I need some living water. So just because they ignore it doesn't mean they don't see it. Thank God for those people who, despite the fact that I rejected it, continue to shine their light in front of me. I wouldn't do this if I hadn't. God had a plan in the middle of it.

God has a plan for winchester. You hear me? There's no plan B. You, Jesus is the light on earth. You have the light of life. God blesses so his people can be a blessing. I'll give you this. I'll see these pictures. But I gave this quote last week and I just want to remind this again because I think it fits the same context here where I am the light of the world, the good, and I am the bread of heaven.

Golden Lane says I'm increasingly uncomfortable with current images of God found in books to claim that the peace and of God is to glorify men and women and enjoy them forever. One of the forges of our age is that all of our deities are heartbroken and eminently incalable. Paul writes about him in Barnabas that this is what the Lord has commanded us. I have laid you of a light for the Gentiles. In Philippians 2.15, so that you may become blameless and pure children of God without fault in a warped and crooked generation, then you will sign. Ephesians 5.8, for you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. And so we get to live as children of the light. Jesus, in his great Sermon on the Mount, said you are the light of the world.

A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. Beautiful people light a lamp and hide it under a bushel. No! Instead, they put him on the stand. And you give light to every one of the mountains. In the same way. What you're right for me. What you're right for me. What you're right for me.

Jesus says, I'm in the light of the Word. Whoever follows me. I'm never walking down, but with my word I'm doing. And I know there are people all across the board here, in all different contexts, in states, I don't know, places and in schools. Some of you have not yet said yes to Jesus, and you're just kind of exploring this stuff. Great. You're welcome. I'm going to actually give an older call, but I'm not giving it to you. If you're exploring this stuff, explore one. Some of you are actually three-year-old, five-year-old places. So, I had the children since I'm preaching less, and the club was out in my carton, and I sit out there, and I don't think I can meet a lot of people that I don't otherwise spend much time talking to. But what's blowing me away is that I've met a bunch of people.

It's like a third of the people I've met, I always ask them, well, why did you come? And so that third said, oh, I work with Samantha Smith.

I'm like, this waterfall's out for you. You're doing it, girl. You're good. Keep it up. But another, half of them, I work with Gunn Collins. But I'm not talking to you either. You're doing great. Now, it's a scary conviction by all means. But there may be some of us here who worry about it. It's a great kind of game.

The Spirit of God is present. You know he's in you. You know he loves you. But if you haven't seen evidence of it in your life, the life that you want is. And you want it. It's been time in your life that you've tasted. And you've eaten it. It's not the spirit.

And then it's kind of like, say, you know leaves are going to fall through, right? And what do we do with leaves? Well, before you burn them, what do you do with them? Yeah, hopefully you rake them up. Some of you are. You just let them rot. And for those of you who just let them rot, next spring, what happens? Well, they're all rotten. They're sitting over top of your beautiful plants that you planted last spring. And as you finally think, you know, I don't want to repaint that one thing. So you rake off the leaves. And down there you see this little yellow plant. And a month later you walk back. And because it is just getting in the sun, all in front of the ground, I want it to be in the name.

Some of you got some leaves. But don't rake off these last cloth. And they stink. And if you've got the surge used to it, you don't smell it. But guess what?

I don't think the Spirit of God divides to renew us on this Facebook. The fountain of water inside of us. Jesus tells us, or John tells us, it's the Spirit of God that they will receive. And he's talking about the day it comes across and the church is born.

And some of us here is, we've got the Spirit, but he's covered over in a bunch of ugly leaves. And some of us wants to just rake those leaves on us. So that what is in you is part of you. I'm going to share one more verse. And then I'm going to actually give a chance of it. But Jesus often will publicly call people of it. There is something about saying, yes, me, I want it. And, you know, right as time when Ryan did an altar call, for those who were, maybe it was the first time, he said, you know, all eyes closed and heads gone. I'm not doing this. I mean, I don't want to say, okay, well, no one's looking. If you want to stand up and say, yeah, I want to do a light.

I don't. I'm going to give you an opportunity where, again, I want more of that Spirit. I want a refreshment today in my life. I'll have the light, my life's going to dim, and I want God to, not Satan, God to blow on the embers of that word in front of me. I want to be renewed. I want to be refreshed. So in Amos' verse, it's a verse in the Gospel of John. It's in the third chapter of John. It's a verse that most people ignore because they don't always, like, get what it's saying. It's at the end of this wonderful passage of Nicodemus, you must be born again, you must be born of the Spirit, you must receive the Spirit. And then Jesus tells us, those who are born of the Spirit, what's going to be like?

And you do know the word Spirit and wind are a king, and so often the Spirit of God is likened to the wind. So here's the verse. I think it's here. Here's the verse. There's the verse. Can you go to the next verse for me? Thank you. Magical. Jesus says this at the end of, you must be born again. He says, the wind blows wherever it pleases. It's unconsolable. You hear a sound. It's unbenundable. But you cannot dwell where it comes from. It's unexplainable. Or where it's falling. It's unpredictable. And then here's the ticker. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit.

Because you are a child who has been born into the kingdom of God to be unconsolable, uneniable, unexplainable, and unpredictable in the signing of your life and the giving of living one.

My worship team can go ahead and pray. I'm just going to give you a chance, and then I'm going to pray for you. If the Spirit of God is tugging on your heart, I'm in a minute going to just give friends. Now, I don't want to guilt anyone in it. Don't do it to make me look good. I'm not looking to count numbers. But if you would like to be prayed for, to say, Lord, light my fire in the day. Lord, refresh the Spirit of God in me. Lord, let you get rid of those leaves that are choking out the life that you've given me. I want to care for you. So if that's you, I'm going to invite you to come in, and then I'm going to come in. Father, you see our hearts.

And you see your children who are standing today saying, Lord, give me fresh man. Give me fresh bread. Give me fresh water. Give me fresh light, Lord. Lord, I say that you would fill me up so full that when people around me bump into me, I'll splice at Jesus. Lord, I want to be that light that's just dying because of who you are in me. Father, you see their heart. And I am convinced it is, it's a prayer that you, you're wringing your hands in anticipation to Jesus. And so in the strong name of Jesus, I pray a fresh filling of God's spirit in your heart and life and mind that might be manifest in the world around you.

It's in Jesus' name, according to Jesus' will that I pray. Amen. If the rest of you will stand, receive now the benefits of now unto him who is able to keep you. And to cause you to stand before his presence, blameless with great glory. To the only wise God on stage of three, Jesus Christ, our Lord, be glory and majesty and dominion and power in the world. And forevermore.

If you stood and you forced God to do something, walk. Just walk in it. If you stood and you haven't forced God to do something, there are times when Jesus goes back and prays again and prays again. I would encourage you to find a good brother, a good sister and say, pray for me again. Pray for me until my light is so bright that my children, my neighbor, my boss, my friends, my parents, can see Jesus. And I want you to pray. Go now in the nurturing of your mission of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
