Like No Other: I AM the Way, Truth, Life
2023-11-20
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NawrDpse1Ho

I know for some of us, that song's a little bit easier to sing than others, and the reality is we're going to take a look at a passage here just a minute. The night before, Jesus died and gets put in a seat. So I don't know where you're at this morning, thinking he won't fail, but I know there are times when it feels like Jesus is aiming the seat. There are times when death and destruction and everything is going wrong, and it's hard to say he won't fail. But we look to the instant. We remember the resurrection and the hope and the victory, and even if we can't see it yet, even if the wind's blowing and the storm is raging, we cling tightly to Jesus, our front of us. As you're in Middle High School and in North Dakota, to East Creek, now you can.

We have two weeks left in our series, Like No Other, where we're looking at the seven signs and seven random statements of Jesus in the Gospel of John. And all of them are in helping us understand why Jesus truly is like no other. John is like the end of his Gospel, that these things were written so that you and I might trust that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that through trusting in him, we want to receive eternal life in the future, and we might walk in abundant life. Now, I resume that statement every Sunday that I preach in this series, and I think it can get to sale, and I think it can get to this phrase that we just repeat and don't really understand what he actually means. The book of John was written so that you and I might have abundant life now and eternal

life in the future. May that not be sale to us this morning. So, while we've covered all seven signs and five onion statements, and the final two onion statements are really at the turning point of the book. He loves us to split the Gospel of John in the two sections they call it, the book of signs and the book of glory. The first seven signs and five onion statements are in the book of signs, and then we come to the, really, the last week or so of life, life, and ministry. It goes from the public square to the private upper room. So, today, we're going to turn on us to probably one of the most well-known onion statements in the community of American church. Can you guess which one it is since you grew up in church?

I am the way, the truth, and the life. If you didn't grow up in church, you've probably even heard that statement before. It says the church, the church is also a weapon that has a good phrase. We've weaponized this as a statement of condemnation for anyone who is outside the church or who disagrees with us. So, I'm excited this morning to take a fresh look at this passage, because I don't think it's meant to be used as a weapon of condemnation, but an open invitation for anyone who desires to taste and see that the Lord is there. All right, let's pray, and then we'll help you see. Father God, we are so grateful for the opportunity to gather together with other followers of Jesus, with those who are spiritually curious, and asking the question, if you truly could

be who you say you are. And to the rest of us who just got forced to come by the parents or drug by friends, God, we are grateful that we are here, because we expect you to do something. That when your word is opened up, your spirit does work. And we expect that today. We're confident that that's going to happen. And please, we look to this statement about how we enter in the presence of God. And we see an opportunity for all of us to draw near to you through the broken bodies that brought it to you through. Anything we're saying? All right, I'd love you to follow along with me from 1 to 10, the John chapter 14 in your Bibles, or open up your Bible, Alex. As you're getting there, I'd love to catch you up on kind of the scene, right?

So, off to this point, the disciples have given their entire lives to follow after Jesus, and they've given up everything. And for the last three years, they've seen crowds of 15,000 to 20,000 people gather to hear the teachings of Jesus. They themselves have cast out demons, have healed the sick, and just about a week before the statement, they literally saw, like, a really, really, really dead guy walk out of the grave, and then they had lunch with him. Pretty good, right? If you've given up your life for this situation, at this point in time, you're like, okay, this is what I thought it was going to be, this is epic, this is awesome. But here in a moment, in this context of our passage, everything seems to change. The ones in the public square, sort of hiding in the private upper room, Jesus tells them

that one of them is going to betray him, many of them are going to deny him, and that he is going to be lenient. And at this point, most of the disciples are probably angry, confused, disheartened, disillusioned, but I think the one thing that all of them are feeling, the common emotion that every one of the disciples are feeling is, this is not what I thought it was going to be.

When I'm signing up for this thing, this is not what I thought it was going to be. Can any of you relate to that here? Have any of you ever felt angry or confused that God, like life wasn't working out the way you thought it, sick? Don't feel me to raise your hands, I'm sure I'm the only one out of them. So this is the context that Jesus speaks to the disciples. He's huge, angry, and this is not what I thought it would be. He tells them this in that moment. He says, let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God and believe also in me and my Father's house, our many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and I prepare a place for you, I will come again and I will take you to myself

that where I am, you may also be. And you know the way to where I am going. God said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can you know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you have known me, you would have known the Father also from now on you do. You do know him, and you would have seen him. So in the midst of all of this confusion and anger and feeling like life, you didn't know this could be Jesus' words to his disciples. I don't be discouraged. Trust God and trust me. Essentially, he's saying, I know this wasn't part of your plan. This isn't how you thought it was going to work out, but this is always how I knew it was

going to work out. This is always a part of my plan. I don't know about you, but it's comforting to me that Jesus seems to be saying the same thing Jesus said the 2,000 years ago where he often says to you and I, when difficult things happen, we get confused, we get angry. He says, I know you didn't think this was a part of the plan. But how am I going to use it? I'm going to work in it for your glory. So for my glory and for your good, trust me, I know this isn't how you plan for me, but this is how I plan for him. I have him forsaken you, and I'm going to plan for you over for your future. And this discouraging is to trust God and trust me. I promise I've got a big scandal.

I know it isn't going to look like what you thought it would. And then he goes on, and he says, I'm going to go to the third place for you with the Father, and you know where I'm going. I love Thomas' response. Anybody else feel like Thomas in this situation? He says, respectfully, sir, we have absolutely no clue where you're going, and we definitely don't know how to get to this. We don't know where you're going, and we definitely don't know how to get to this. So you're going to have to give us a hug, and you're going to have to give us some help with you. And I love just a quick application point here. Don't be afraid to bring your questions to God. Your doubts, your fears, and something to be angry or upset with you.

He is patient, loving, and contenting. I feel like I'm on them so often. I don't know what you're doing here. So I'm not a part of my planning, and I don't know where I'm supposed to go, but don't be afraid to come to God with your question. So essentially, Thomas' questions, I think he's asking two questions. Number one, where are you going? Seems fair, right? They've been calling him for three months. He said, follow me. So it seems fair that he's like, hey, where are you going? I want to go with you. And then how do you get here? So let's write those two questions down. Where is Jesus going? Well, he says, I'm going to my Father's house. I'm going to pray a little for you. Simply, Jesus, he's saying he's going to the presence of God.

He's going to prepare a dwelling place where human beings can dwell in harmony and safety with the God of creation. And this immediately would have gotten the disciples' attention. Because every good Bible-believing Jewish man wanted to dwell in the presence of God. That's like what they grew up hoping for. Think about Psalm 23. David ends with a little Psalm by saying, I will dwell in the house of the Lord of heaven. This was the hope of the Jewish person to dwell in the house of the Lord. That was Jesus says, I am going to prepare a place for you in the house of the Lord. From the first pages of the Hebrew Scriptures, the Jews would have believed. They would have understood clearly that they were made to dwell in the presence of God. We talk about Garden of Eden all the time.

It's so important to realize that God's design for creation is for humans to dwell with him in safety and harmony, naked and honest with him. This was the original plan. Something went horribly wrong. We rebelled against a holy and loving God and sin forced us out of his presence in the garden and into a world marked by sin and the absence of his absence of his clear and tangible presence. Something that is present in the world, but he is not clear and tangible, as it was in the garden. Isaiah 16, I think he said, it is your sins that have cut you off from God. So we're in the presence of God. Safe, making, understanding, everything is going good, but we sin. We chose for a belly against God's pain. That sins has cut us off from the presence of God.

However, throughout the existence of Jews, it was known that God was making a way to dwell in the near present, intensely finding ways for his presence to dwell, even in limited ways. The feasible presence of God led the nation of Israel from Egypt through the wilderness into the promised land, and then he had a pillar of cloud by bay and a pillar of fire by night. Later, God would have Moses build a tabernacle, and then Solomon, a permanent temple, all so that his presence could dwell in the midst of the community of Israelites. All of this was culminated at the beginning of the Gospel of John, where John says, the word became flesh and dwelt among us. That word for dwelt, tabernacle. Literally, Jesus' tabernacle, his presence, God's presence came down. Later, Paul would write that through the spirit of God,

followers of Jesus become tabernacles where the presence of God dwells. This was always God's plan so that his presence could dwell with his people. God's desire is, was, and will always be to dwell with them. And whether you realize it or not, your deepest internal desires are to dwell with the creator of you. I think it's why so often life doesn't feel like it's, like it's, like it's, like it's, like it's always going to work out. So, like, many of us know, like, this is a pretty excellent middle class church. Like, many of us have had life work out for us, right? But so often life works out for us and we hit the killer at night. And it's still not there, right? Because something missed me. Ecclesiastes 3.11 puts it this way, that God has put eternity in our hearts.

So there's so deep longing inside of us that no matter what, no matter how amazing life works out, we still feel included. There's this incredibly powerful and overwhelmingly sad interview of Tom Brady after his third Super Bowl in 16 minutes. Did you see this? Just me. Okay, cool. Well, that's why I lost things, so I can tell you about it. Tom Brady wins three Super Bowls, at this point he's single and he's, like, best for number one. Everybody wants to hang out with him and do some super wealthy, super rich, super successful. He's won everything that he could ever, like, whatever he says, just turns to gold. And literally, he says this phrase to the end of the year of his God, that he's got to do more to life than this. How does that happen?

How does someone literally have the most success? Like, all of us would sign up for three Super Bowls, a couple million dollars, right? Like, sounds pretty great. And at the end of all, there would, in fact, he could kill her at night if he knew something was missing. We all know something is missing. That something is the presence of God that we were creating, that we're experiencing. We've been separated from that present. Which leads us to Thomas' second question. How do we get back there? How do we get back to God's presence? If we're made for the presence of God, and we've been separated from the presence of God, how do we get back to God's presence? Which is what Jesus responds with. It's an amazing, powerful words. It's because I, and the way, the truth, and the life, no one comes to the Father's presence.

It's because no one gets back into the Father's presence except through me. I summarize Jesus' statement this way. It ultimately means he's saying that Jesus is the way back to God's presence and the truth about God's presence that leads us to life in the God's presence. Jesus is the way, the only way back to God's presence. He is the truth about God's presence that leads us to life in his presence, both abundant life now and eternal life in the future. So, let's untap this statement one line at a time. So, you see the way back to God's presence. This thing has both spiritual and earthly implications. I hope you've picked up on that throughout the series of John. Right? God's series of John, there's been, like, application for life now and today, earthly, and then, future, abundant life on earth, eternal life in heaven.

We got that. So, this statement is earthly things and all spiritual things that are here and now. Let's start with spiritual. In order to explain the spiritual implications, I have to give you the fastest flyover lesson of the Old Testament tavern and close all time. Can you guys listen fast? It's going to be fast, and I might miss some things. For some of you, this is going to be a review. For others of you, it'll be a partial review and partial new things. And for a lot of us, like, you've never heard of it at all. So, I'm going to try and do, like, the best summary that will hit all the targets we need to hit. Well, like I said, sin separated God's people from God's presence. God decided to dwell with them, and so he had a temporary tabernacle in the world in this permanent temple.

And the whole point of the temple in this tabernacle was so that God's presence could once again dwell with his people. The problem was there was a very limited, temporary way for God's presence to dwell with his people. There were different parts of the tabernacle that you could enter based on your ceremonial cleansing. You could get closer and closer to the presence of God depending on who you were and how clean you were and how many sacrifices you had to offer. And this is probably really weird for us. You know, sacrifices, right? Yeah, it's weak. Thank you, Sherry. I've been here. I have a friend at my 13th place of age. He grew up on the Mickey Field in Africa, and they moved to America, and his brother is older. He pretty much sold his whole life in Africa and then moved to the suburbs of America

and didn't really find the simile at all. And so, they had, like, a backyard wedding, and he just literally, like, yielded a goat in his backyard in the middle of, like, suburbs, and people were, like, I'm really glad he's my neighbor, right? So, we're going to have a two-step scheme for this. But remember that it's sin that causes us to be separated from God's presence. And the Bible says that the penalty of sin is death. But because of God's love, he was already blown up presence, he would accept the blood sacrifice of an innocent animal to pay the penalty that we deserve for as sin. That's why there's blood sacrifice. And then, all the way in the center of the temple was a place called the Holy of Holies. It's where God's visible, tangible presence would dwell.

Oops. We're there. We're tracking. Guarded by a massive curtain. We need to know this already. No one could enter the Holy of Holies except for the high priest, and he could only enter once a year, and yet enter with a sacrifice. Inside the Holy of Holies, with the Ark of the Covenant, and you're going to need to understand something else. But the Ark of the Covenant, inside the Ark of the Covenant, was with Ten Commandments. On top of that was something called a mercy seat, and above that was where God's presence flowed, okay? No one could enter someone's here, high priest. What he did is he would come in with the blood of an innocent animal, and he would sink with on the mercy seat. And ultimately, what was happening in that moment is every year,

God would be sitting as judge over the nation of Israel, looking down at the law in the Ten Commandments. We've all broke them. We've all failed. Especially when he just redefines them in Matthew 5, right? He says, you've heard him say, don't kill somebody. I'd say if you hate somebody in your heart, you've killed them. All right, so we're all guilty. And the blood would be sprinkled in between the law and God's presence, and God would declare the nation of Israel innocent of their sins for another year. That was all well and good except what? More and more flesh. More and more death. More and more blood. Over and over and over again. According to his setup, the way back to a limited access to God's presence was through the blood of an animal. Entered the beginning of John, Jesus comes down on earth, and John the Baptist says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world.

The night before Jesus crucified, he tells his disciples, he's going to prepare a place for them where they can dwell with him, and they will access that place to him. Jesus is about to demonstrate the entire Old Testament system, the temple of the tabernacle. It was all just a shadow, a symbolic picture of what the ultimate plan was for Jesus to summon the eternal redemption, the eternal blood sacrifice. The blood sacrifice will happen once and for all. Not so a few Jews could enter into a limited part of God's presence, but so everyone on earth who replaced their faith and trust in Jesus alone could have unstandard access to the presence of God. It was all a shadow, a picture of the thing that was to come. Without this place, Jesus offered himself as a once and for all,

a sacrifice to the consequences of your sin and my sin. Again, this passage was never meant to be a saint, and it's a gruesome statement that was used to weaponize people how it's time. Jesus is saying that it is a free invitation to all who are to come and enter the presence of God come through me. I heard one pastor will say it this way. I thought it was so good. He said, imagine somebody from that church comes up to me and says, Hey, Ryan, we think you're cool. I use Brian and Megan. They think I'm cool. I know that for a fact. Brian and Megan come to my house, and they're like, Brian, we think you're cool. Can we come over on for a game night? Maybe have some food and some games and it would be fun.

And then I asked him, Brian, am I going to flip? So, yes, please, come to my home. We'd love to be able to play games and eat food. Um, just enter through the door. That seems pretty good, right? I imagine that Brian was like, dude, I don't like that door. Your door is gross. It's dirty, and I don't like it. I don't want to enter your house through your door, right? Like that doesn't compute. There's the way. It's my, this is the only door, and it's my house. If you want to come into my house, you have to come through my door. And I said, Jesus, it's come in. If you want to come into the presence of God, it's free. It's a hill. Come on in. You just have to come through my door.

Jesus needs the door that brings us into the presence of God. Not an exclusive statement. It's an open invitation. Christ has come as high priest of the good things that are now already here. He went through the greater and more perfect tabernacle that is not made with human hands. That is to say, it is not part of creation. He did not enter by means of the blood of goats and calves, but He entered the most holy place once and for all by His own blood, thus obtaining eternal redemption. A goat's blood value temporary redemption. The blood of the Son of God, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world, provides eternal redemption. Once and for all, all of our sins, past, present, and future, can be cast out as far as the east is from the west.

The eternally righteous blood of Jesus has been placed before the presence of God on your behalf and on my behalf, securing for us temporary, not temporary innocence, but eternal righteousness. We have unfettered access to the place of the Father.

For Jesus, who made him who made him who made no sense of the Son of God on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God. For who received that forgiveness? And if you have, are you regularly accessing the presence of God? I think many of us, we trust in Christ, we receive salvation, this eternal thing, right? And how often do we neglect the opportunity that we have to take for the presence of God, whatever we want? We trust all of our tears and our anxieties and our fears and our worries on us. Have you received the forgiveness of Jesus and are you regularly accessing the presence of God? Jesus is the way that God's presence. I know I'm like way behind, so anyway, we'll figure it out. But that's what the spiritual implications, right?

The spiritual implications of Jesus being in the way are that his blood pays the penalty for our sins. The practical is that he's the example that we follow to live in the presence of God. It's what John Mark was talking about in that video this morning. John Mark has this quote, he says, The essence of following Jesus is being with Jesus, becoming like Jesus, and doing what Jesus did. So when Jesus says, I am the way, he's saying, yes, I am the way to enter the presence of God. But I'm also the example you follow of how to live into the presence of God. So if you want to know how to live a life, a full life, an abundant life, live through the presence of God, look at Jesus, I'll have you read John on your own, that's how I'll say it sometime, all right?

Number two, not only is Jesus the way back to God's presence, but he's the truth about God's presence. Later in the passage, it will say, whoever has seen me has seen the Father. And I think, just so often, we avoid the presence of God because we believe a lie about the presence of God. It's like we're afraid to enter into God's presence because we believe things that aren't true about him. We tell ourselves lies, the culture around us tells us lies, and the enemy of God tells us lies, and they're all designed to keep you and me away from God's presence. And it's hard to know what's a lie and what's truth. Have you guys seen how good AI is getting? Or do you see stuff on the mirror and you're like, how did that happen?

Oh, it's not even, it's a lie, it didn't even happen, right? So, we cannot believe what is true about God, not what we think is true about God. And so many of us think that, in a row, whether intentionally or unintentionally, believing lies about God, or God from New Galatia, preaching, that God was so eager to get me. I'm not saying there was a passage in time, but that is what I came away with. I believe so long that, like, God was just giving me a favor by letting me come up to the presence. So, I had a, like, if I had a really good week, you would kind of be excited to see me. I had a really bad week, and just, like, showed up because you have to, because you promised me. So, I'm honored.

So, I'm honestly an imminent about the presence of God. You want to know what God looks like, the truth about God, look at you. The thing about, the story is, a woman called adultery, right? Religious people bringing this woman, who literally is caught in the act of adultery. Like, there's no getting away from it. There's no getting away from it. What's Jesus' response? Do you want to know what God's response to your sinning is? Look at Jesus' response to the people who haven't sinned past the place. So, that's who it's in the crowd, the one sinning. Do you pick up a stone? I don't know. Do you want to know the truth about God's presence? Look at Jesus' response. Don't, don't avoid the presence of God because you're believing lies about Jesus. Okay. Maybe, maybe you have a dysfunctional family unit.

And when you think about God being a father, like, you're imposing things on him that are true about your family. You want to know what God is, like, look at Jesus. What lies are you believing about God that are ultimately keeping you from, are they ultimately leading you to avoid his presence?

I saw a quote a couple of years ago, they said that religion says, I messed up, I screwed up. God is not true. Christianity says, I screwed up, I better call that. You know what the presence of God looks like, but truth about God's presence is, all of its fullness can be found in Jesus. It's the truth about God's presence is, all of its fullness can be found in Jesus, all of its fullness can be found in God's presence. That's where we can see at this point, this is the theme of the Gospel of John, that trusting in Jesus is the way back to God, so we can experience both abundant life and a phenomenal life in the future. I'll have a baby come up. We're going to start to wrap up here.

Many of us probably feel that life isn't more in the way that we thought it was. I think I'm going to read this big, but that's also a fair assumption. And no matter the circumstances, we can have peace and hope in the presence of God here and now. And in the day we are leading you into God's presence, pray of God's presence, and be filled with the Spirit. We'll draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. No matter our life circumstances or the decisions that we have made, we have been invited into the presence of God through the blood of Jesus, all we have to do is stick Him up on us. Abundant life is available to us today. We can dwell in the presence of the Lord now and forever.

Not only does this abundant life now, there's eternal life in the future. Because I will come again, and I will take you to Myself. That's only from before creation was always to restore creation. That God's dwelling place would once again be with us forever. This has always been a part of God's plan, and it was necessary that Jesus come to live a perfect life, and died a death that He did not deserve, and not quite for our sins, so that He might be able to give us peace to the Father. Eternal life is only natural. I think like the disciples, though, we often get angry and confused with the fact that God's plan doesn't lift the way that we thought it would.

I think we can find comfort now in knowing that God's plan is actually better than our plan. See, they don't want them to overthrow Rome, fix their immediate problems, make life good, make them, you know, cleanses. Oh, that sounds great. But God's plan was so much better. It wasn't for a small group of people at one time and then placed in each group, but it was for all three. As eternal redemption plan, it is so much better than what we hope and want for. How will we accept Jesus as the only way back to God's presence to speak about God's presence that leads us to life in the community of Christ? How will we respond? Will we accept Jesus as the only way back to God's presence? Will we follow His example in our everyday life? Will we believe in things about God that can be clearly seen in Jesus?

I think we can know the answer to this question while I'm asking ourselves, are we, do we have abundant life? Are we experiencing abundant life? Because if not, we're probably avoiding God's presence. If you're here, you're following Jesus. If your life seems to be missing something, I'd encourage you to regularly and intentionally go into heaven in the presence of God. What could you do for Jesus? Make time to get away to spend so much of the presence of God. Realize how much He loves you. Believe what He says about you is true. And live in light of life is true. If you're in here, you haven't given your life to the news yet.

I'm just, I believe you were made to dwell in God's presence. That's what you were created for. That's the reason why when your head hits the pillow at night, even if everything went great, that day, something is missed. It's been separating from God's presence. No matter how many good things you do, you cannot outdo your sin before a whole week of it. I love how C.S. Lewis puts it. He says, If you find yourself with a desire that nothing in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that you were made for another world.

So if you're in there enough hours and you've experienced that feeling of something isn't missing, something isn't adding up, something isn't happening the way that I thought it would happen, Jesus is the fact. He is the way, it's true, and the way. And you have brilliantly invited to answer His presence. And we're so sending you to Jesus for salvation. Thanks for coming in because we're going to do it back in the morning. Let's pray and then we're going to just enjoy the time of that season. Father, we are so grateful and thankful that you do not fault our sins against us. That you provided a way for our sins to be paid for, not by reoccurring in those animal sacrifices, but by the sacrifice of your very own son. Once and for all, a security for any who would eat you through his door,

eternal redemption. That may we seize the walk and the light of that forgiveness every day. May we receive it, may we realize that when you look at us, you see the righteousness of Christ all that happened.

That many of us have been praying about a week that we just ethically said. We just have to sing the way that Jesus would not have done it. And we believe the law that we're going to come into your presence and we're going to be angry and disappointed. When in reality, the thing you want more than anything from you is for all of you. It's you. You're going to forgive us. You're going to take us back off. And you're going to send us back off. Ready to give us that aside. To help us. And we receive forgiveness over another day. That may we be a few more. I truly believe Jesus is the way that Jesus is not. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I pray that you serve us today by...
