Like No Other: Healing the Hopeless
2023-09-11
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EV4me5ZbzZU

Welcome. Okay, Lord. You know, I've got to tell you, I've been learning over the last couple of months, you know, don't say tomorrow I'll do such and such and say if the Lord wills. Okay, Lord. So, my name is Matt. I'm one of the teaching pastors here at Canvas. If you are visiting, we're glad that you're here. In fact, we're thrilled that you're here. We hope you do select that comment card. You actually do pray for our visitors. We're in the midst of a 15-week series where we are walking through the Gospel of John. And in that, the Gospel of John is like a tapestry with many threads that go through the Gospel and they come together to paint an incredible picture. And we could explore the Gospel of John in a lot of ways.

We could follow the thread of light, which kind of weaves through the whole Gospel, what John does with light and what Jesus does with light. We could do the same thing with light. We could do the four discourses of Jesus through the Gospel of John. In fact, the miracle, the sign that I'm going to talk about today sets the course. It sets the scene for his first discourse. And I wish I had about eight messages just for this story of the Pool of Bethesda and that incredible discourse. But we were chosen to walk through the Gospel of John by looking at the intentional seven signs, the seven miracles that John identifies, and the seven self-disclosings by Jesus, the iron statements that he makes. So that gives the context for those of you who haven't been walking with us.

We are in the third miracle, it's John 5, 1 through 15, and I'm going to talk about that. But for those of you who are here on a regular basis, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, complete our sermons, reach and reach to John. I mean, where do we even touch John chapter 3? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believes. John that cares, but I've ever, I mean, it's the one verse that someone stands at the back of the end zone and holds up the, you know, John 3, 16, so there's so much good stuff. But we're going to walk through this intentional structure, this thread that John does in his Gospel around the seven signs and the seven miracles, or I'm saying, seven iron statements of Jesus.

Okay. There we go. So here on the third side, the first one, as you recall, two weeks ago is Water into Wine. Ryan did a great job with that. The second one, Corey Delworth, the healing of the official son. And on this one, it is a cripple, an overage for 38 years in Jesus' materials at the pool of Bethesda. And we suspect that this is properly in the second year of Jesus' ministry in kind of a chronological order. Jesus' ministry was three years before he was crucified, and I believe in the beginning of the second one. And as we go through this, and we talk about this, this man who has been crippled for 38 years at Jesus' leaves, I'm going to name him Fred.

We don't know what his name is, it's not given to us, but I think it will be important as we walk through this that we name him rather than call him the invalid. Because I think that if you internalize anything, but the belongs of God as my identity, it's not problematic. And some of us internalize our disease, our deception, our role, all kinds of stuff. And we need to come back to it. And you're going to, you've heard me say that before, and you're going to hear me say it five or six times in this message, because this message has a lot to do with identity and how Jesus meets us. And so walk with me as we talk about breath. Okay? So, this is the third sign. It's the third sign in the midst of many, many, many, many miracles that Jesus does.

And John tips the tips, in fact, that there are many miracles. In fact, this particular verse, it shows up between Miracle 1 and Miracle 2. So, Miracle 1, Jesus is up in the north, he's up in the region of Galilee, up the corner. And then Miracle 2, he's up there again. But between that, he walks almost the whole length of the country, and he gets down to Jerusalem, and he's in Jerusalem. And there, they see, what do you say here? Many signs he's performing. So, John does not tell us all of them, but John puts seven specific signs to answer his purpose for writing this gospel. He tells us his purpose. He said, I'll know it by now. We've gone over it a couple times. In fact, if you're going to memorize the whole verse in the gospel of John, this is probably the one to memorize.

But these are written, that you may believe the Jesus of the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing, you might have life in his name. That's John's focus. Now, my health off today, Ryan and Corey, John is a master for layering. In many ways, John is written in third-grade language with PhD meetings. In fact, for you students of Greek, if we're going to learn Greek from the text, we go to the gospel of John, because it's kind of Greek-run kind of language. It's really, it's not a lot of vocabulary. It's pretty simple. It's repetitive vocabulary. But all the great commentaries in the gospel of John don't end up being written until the scholars come to the twilight of their ministry. And after decades of studying these Scriptures, they finally think, maybe I can do this much fun.

And while Ryan and Corey introduced us to the intricacies, the layered aspects of this gospel, they took us into the PHA meaning of the text. I'm going to take a slightly different approach. I'm going to take the third-grade approach today. I'm going to talk about you. Because I am convinced that John shows several different signs to let you know that whoever you are, Jesus wants to offer you life. It is not God's will that any should perish. It's God's will that how many perish? None! It's not God's will that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. By the way, they mentioned that all? He wants all to come to repentance? And as we go through these signs, we'll see three different realities. That Jesus will counter, Jesus ministers in, and Jesus brings salvation, he brings healing, he brings life.

The first one was water to wine, and then that one, Ryan helped us understand that Jesus reaches these signs. Remember he told us that the groom ran out of wine, and then that culture was a shameful thing to do at the wedding. And Jesus stepped in and filled up seven-filled baths of water, and as they took the water out, the rest was in the same way. Jesus stays in the same way. The next one that Corrin talked about is the official son, and while the son gets healed, he's really not the center of the story. The center of the story is Jesus and the official. The official walks across the whole region of Galilee to plead before Jesus for his son, the desperate. And then when Jesus says, it's done, go home. He obeys, and he goes home, and he finds on his way home that Jesus has done this, and he's finally healed the very moment that Jesus said that he's healed.

But Jesus saves the ashamed. He saves the dead sick. But he also saves the hopeless. And Fred? Well, Fred's hopeless. Fred is the hopeless. So I want to tell you a little bit about what is going on here. By the way, if you really like to take lots of notes and you like notes, my sermon today is somewhat content-heavy. I usually like images and do a lot of teaching, and so I think about 20 or seven copies of my notes is back right next. So before you put your offering in the box, you can just take a set of notes, and if more people want them, we can put them online, we usually post that stuff anyways. So, in this context, they're near Jerusalem, so they're gone from the north, down to the south, back up to the north, and now at some point they've found their way,

Jesus, and found his way back to Jerusalem, and it's very accessible. This is important because while Fred, definitely lived near this pool of Bethesda, during a festival, the first one would swell from about 120,000 people to somewhere between 300,000 and 500,000 people. There were three to four times as many people, three times a year, three festivals. Every male over a certain age, every Jewish male over a certain age was required to go to Jerusalem for this festival, and so it would swell. And these were people who were expected of religious experiences. They realized that they were going there to do some religious obligation that the law had called them to do. And so, in a very real sense, the pool here in Jerusalem is flooded with people who are looking to be generous. This is the alms of them.

And the pool is kind of miracle central. There's probably a lot more people than are normally there. If someone comes to the menu, they're going to get it fixed over there. So everyone's throwing up. So Fred's there all the time, but that's the people that are throwing up. Second, they're at a place where people believe in miracles. In verse 7, the Scripture tells us that Fred, as well as everyone gathered around, lots of people, believe that when the water stirred, that the first one in won the miracle. By the way, the Scriptures do not tell us that that is what actually happened. It's not the Scripture. It just tells us that these are people who believe in the miracles. They're looking for God to do something amazing.

Three, Fred has been an invalid. He's been crippled for most of his life. You know, Proverbs 13 and 12 tells us that heart destroyed makes the heart sick. And we see in Fred someone sitting at the pool with a self. It said to me, house of mercy. Sitting at the house of mercy. It's not just a cripple, but a stiff soul. In the last few months, I'm just at all kinds of stuff going on in my body. I asked a question of one of our medical personnel here this morning. And he said, when you know that, you're reaching expiration dates.

Just so you know, if you're up in your reading, those sell-by dates, they originally changed from when the maker of whatever they were selling thought it would be at its prime. So, I'm at my prime sell-by dates. Just that's why I'm... So, anyways, the last few months, I had to go to a podiatrist and get a shot in my foot. And because my heel was hurting, I messed up. And when I did my running up pills, I messed up my knee. And then I'm kneeling as a PT for a while. And in the midst of all that, I had to go to a UI doctor. And all of this has messed up my fall plans. This is not what I had planned. And it's not only messed up my fall plans, but it altered my lifestyle.

There's certain things that I did. You know, I wear the Fitbit. And if you saw my Fitbit now versus three months ago, it's... It's pathetic. And I'm walking down the stairs, you know, and I feel like I'm pumped my expiration date. And so I'm sitting in my lazy board chair in my apartment. And I'm having a PT party over the fact that I'm going to these tests. And I've been at any dairy for two weeks. And I think, how long did you probably do something? And I hear it just felt like you did nothing. And all along, you're thinking, I have to do this, this, what's for this? I'm going to do nothing. So I finally convinced myself I should get up and start working on my message again. And I get up and I start reading this.

And I just start laughing. And I'm thinking, man, I'm depressed because I can't have cream in my coffee. And this time I've walked for 38 years. Fred, hopeless. Fred tells us not only that he's hopeless, but to be isolated in a crowd of peers.

When Jesus asks him a question, his response was, I have no one. Literally what he says, verse 7, I have no one. I have no one who's helping me into the pool when the water goes. You do realize that in creation, which was, before the fall, perfect, there is one place where God, in his perfect creation, still says, before a human fell, says it is not good. And it was a place where he realized he just made one and he said he is not good, if human is alone. And you need to have any means. But there is, you are wired to be a community. And Fred is alone. You know, there is another story in the Scriptures about a man, very similar to Fred, in that he can't walk. And Jesus shows up in his hand.

And when Jesus shows up in his hand, they were calling Bob. Bob's buddies realized that Jesus, his healer, is in time. And so they all get together. I don't know how, you know, they couldn't touch each other. I don't know if they had smoke signals or anything. They got together, and they found a stretcher, and they put Bob on the stretcher to take him to Jesus to get healed. They get there, and it's like all of you are crowded around the front here, and they can't get into the house with Jesus. So they walk around to the back of the house. They crawl up onto the guy's wrist, reach the stretcher. They break a hole in the wrist big enough for a guy lying down to be lowered down to Jesus. This guy, Bob, I mean, he had a community.

That's my friend. Fred's alone. Fred's hurt you. And the last thing we take from this is he is superstitious, and we'll see more about that later. So Jesus responds. He asks the question. Jesus often asks the question. Do you want to get wet? By the way, it's a great question. In psychology today, we recognize one of the things that Jesus is looking at is secondary gain. The psychology dictionary calls secondary gain a social, occupational, or interpersonal advantage through a disability. I get money, or I get benefits, or I get attention. And it really is not worth the disability, but someone who is so much in their disability, nor the dysfunction, will sometimes remain in their dysfunction because they want that secondary gain. It gives me a place. It gives me attention. And Jesus is asking, do you know what I'm saying?

Do you know what I'm saying? I generally pray to see anything other than the blood of God. It's problematic. We can place it in our job. But if you place it in something you can lose, it's a dangerous thing. I don't know how many couples I've worked with who their last child leaves the house. They, you know, they think they make their child free now, and actually what they are is an identity placement. We can place that identity in being mine, or being dying, or being parent, or being parent, or, you know, what do I do? Who am I? What do you mean for me? We can place identity in disability, in sexual desires, in education. When I was at the seminary, oh my word, I mean, these were incredibly intelligent people, my colleagues. I mean, you know, just blew me away.

But when you become unbelievably intelligent in a very narrow slice of life, and you spend so much time in it, the temptation, the danger is that you begin to attach your identity to this thin slice of life. That's why it was not uncommon in academic circles to question why is, well, what's your degree? Oh, you don't have a doctorate. Oh, your doctorate is just a B-man. I had a B-man, I'm low-man on the totem pole. You don't even have a D-E-D-E, a doctorate of education, and a PhD, that's the gold standard. That's where you want to be. But then, I've watched colleagues even, you know, okay, we have all PhDs, but where did you study us? I used to start to study the same place, and the next question was, oh, who did you study under?

And it's when the identity begins to get connected to this thing. Do you know why the John never calls himself John in the Gospel of John? What do you call him, Scott? Yeah, the disciple of Jesus' love. The beloved of God. The beloved of Jesus. I think he had it done. So, I was, recently read a book by Andy Dunn, one of the editing of Stanford Business School. He launched the first company to fully build a brand online. It was Bonobo Can't Stop, Denimast, Bonobo Pros. He eventually sold it for just under a billion dollars to Walmart. And the book, Burnley, is about his building of the company, and the second parallel story is he's dealing with his bipolar diagnosis. And the constant train wrecks, and rescues, and train wrecks, and rescues, and that whole journey.

But in that book, he says something that he's concerned. He says, when someone says someone is bipolar, rather than has a bipolar disorder, it's like saying someone is cancer. You want to get rid of it? Jesus is a good question. And by the way, you'll see that this man doesn't actually answer his question. Because Fred's hopeless. Fred is beyond even able to answer that question. You know that often when Jesus asks a question, either in the Scriptures or to you personally, he's not looking for answers. What he's looking for is self-reflection. Jesus will ask the question because he wants you to do business with you. He wants you to present the real you to the real Jesus, that the real you might be healed. Might be blessed. Might be transformed. Might be encouraged. Might be loved.

Might be blessed. Life can bring responsibility. Now, I hope to be in the room, probably not old enough to remember the day. I never slept with toys left, but I can remember the song. I don't want the toys left to me. I don't want to grow up. I don't want the toys left to me. And there he goes, I don't want to grow up. Because health does come with some level of responsibility. Too much is given, much is required. Do you want to be healed? Do you want to be healed? That's Jesus' question. Okay. So Jesus, I'm sorry, said his response, and it's classic hopelessness. The first thing he does is he fears that you want to be healed, and instead of answering that question, he answers the question, if you've been healed for 38 years, how can

you not healed yet? You say, how can I be healed? I mean, when the water starts, I have no one to take me down there. I don't know about you, but I've engaged in self-draining behavior. Sometimes those cakes that you take in, you do realize that all of life, and by the way, I realize I did this to my kids some, and I guess most parents do at some point, we live in so many leading and judgmental questions, and we come to a place where we download those questions into our brain, and we press autoplay. And they just keep playing over and over and over and over and over and over again, and what this man needs is heal the best, in addition to his crippled legs.

And he says, I'm alone, no one plays enough. He has saved the life, and he's quit. And sitting by the house of nurses has no longer become a search for folks that rallying against me. If you are now, I just sit here. And he can't even answer the question, do you know what to do at all right? I don't know how many of you have walked in that level of hopelessness. I suspect there are some people here. I suspect many of us have had at times.

John wants to make sure we know more, that Jesus doesn't just feel, say, respond to his sound, or the death thing, or come to the hotel. There's a wonderful quote coming from Adam Dunn. The freshman functions best in the action of hope. Yesterday, I was reading through some articles in the Harvard Business Review, different writing I'm doing, and I'm telling the time, the physiologist, and I can't tell you, the person's name, I'm a highly hostile, even some of you know. But point of word, emotional labor, and identify with it in me. And if you read in anything, there is emotional weight to that being. There's an emotional labor that goes with life. And all of us need someone. The greater your level of leadership, the more susceptible you are to a high level of emotional

labor. And the reality is, when we don't navigate our emotions or labor well, our soul begins to degrade. I might make you so thrilled to be with me, but I'm going to hear you now. If this emotional labor can degrade our very beings. Right? I've been 38 years. But not just the disability, but the emotional labor of his disability. So last week, I told you that the beginning of December, I'm going to the Philippines to work with the Philippines, or actually international countries, because there'll be something else being asked to be made in the college in India, most in the Philippines. And in there, we find all the time that we get leaders whose soul has degraded, that they've anchored into this process of losing authenticity. And so I want to just quickly run you through a piece of a lecture that we do there, because

it touches you really well, and then we'll get back to say. So symptoms of losing authenticity, the very first symptom is I use my inner self, outwardly undynamics. But, if something is missing.

When we harden ourselves against the hurt that we feel, we become insensitive. We become ungrateful. We begin to address outward symptoms and avoid the heart issues. I've often said, if you have the fruit, you've got the root. The reality is, folks, we're never going to kill the apple crab apple tree that we don't want by picking the crab apples on the tree. We've got to get down to the roots. We address outward symptoms and avoid heart issues. We find that I no longer enjoy life. You know, Robin Williams was the most fun guy in the room. And so we can make suicide. It was love and fun. The second main symptom is I lose touch with my inner life. People see me as people, but why now something's being neglected? And many of them go through the edge.

There's a good moment. I lose insight. I can't, I won't see what I desperately need to see. The inner life hurts. And so I avoid it. The third symptom is I lose power to resist temptation. At this point, I begin to habituate my sin. Something's clearly wrong. I know it's wrong, but I look for opportunities to think what I do. I make strategies. Because I'm losing my authenticity. I can no longer find what's taking place. It's like taking jello and trying to compress jello in your hand. And all that happens is it freezes out in every cross that's there. And makes a mess for someone else to clean up.

I'm constrained by the bees, be this, be that. External expectations become mandates while internal ones, externals of other people become mandates while internal ones become ignored. And I operate between that frenetic business and the couch paralysis.

It's distinction. It's what we're going on already. It's open. I lose self-discipline. Personality becomes explosive. The pain of my inner life leads to being a secret. Folks, if you hear nothing else, hear this. Secrets bring power to your sinful nature to destroy you. But if you have secrets, find someone to come for. Someone safe, someone respectable, someone honorable. That's why for a concessional false one tonight, you might be healed. If, if, if, no, you get it. Because if you don't, it's going to become a sinkhole of your soul that's just waiting to climb. And I am. And the fourth symptom is I lose respect for the person that I am. I'm linked to something bad. I'm focused on survival instead of feeling alive. I'm not sure I can love or I am lovable. I focus on escape.

But I know life becomes destructive. People who arise here are sometimes asking the question of life worth living. By the way, if this is not connecting with you at all, praise God. God. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. And do me a favor. Praise for those for whom it is connected. Or have I seen your beloved brothers and sisters who are in our midst and some of whom are here. And be available and be grown. Could be a vessel of the Lord, peace of Christ. No one's exempt. Next Sunday is National Physicians Suicide Awareness Day. Let's open school by nice homes or cool pictures of cool places on Facebook. No one is exempt. All right. The point in '23 makes the physician suicide report that recently came out said one out of ten has considered suicide and 40% of those who have have told no one at the time.

Those who survived against the camera on the time on someone. All right. A couple days ago, I was reading a testimony of the other physician who, in 2017, was most away from succeeding. And she writes, quote, "And not to come the person who had ever considered something like suicide, so I thought." So I drank. And she was on to talk about the undesirable emotional pain. I know it's getting a little heavy. So, my daughter, we can make this statement all the time, when she was like eight, nine, seven years ago. She was going to be a higher high school. And there was a video that had gone viral. I'm having to do it. And I asked her to show it to me. It's good for those days, and I know there was helps you for me to see it.

But it was these two incredibly gorgeous young young boys. And they were talking about their lives. And one of them says, "Fuck girls have problems too." No one's the same. By the way, sometimes the fuck girl is the most lonely person in the world because all the guys view her as an object, and all the females use her as competition. I've met many, many beautiful, lonely ladies, because everyone's just treated like a person. Fred desperately needs treated not like an invalid, but like a person. This behavior becomes addicted. I've given up. I'm homeless. I'm homeless. I'm homeless. And this is Fred. So, let's go back to Fred. Jesus' second response to Fred is Jesus' healing. And I want you to watch what happens here, because it's unbelievable. Jesus' healing of Fred precedes any recognizable faith.

Jesus looked at him, said, "Get up, carry your mask." He would immediately heal, and so then he did it. There is no demonstration of faith on the part of Fred at this point. And so, back to the first sign that John gives us. There's great faith by Mary in saying, "Listen to what my son says." There's great faith by these servants who dip their... They spill the vests with water. They know their water. They dip their wrinkle in, and they carry the water to the wine store. I mean, I had to feel unbelievable and stupid. Great faith to listen to what Jesus said. The official who walked across the region of Galilee to plead with Jesus, to heal his son, simply because he said, "Go back and heal and turn around and get an unbelievable faith."

But in this context, he had no faith to do it. It's what Jesus said. And based on Jesus said it. Because Jesus saw Fred and said, "I'm going to keep on this." Now, here's a takeaway from us right away, because I know that all of you have sworn up, but many of you have met Jesus in profiling ways, wonderful ways, great ways. Be careful to universalize your experience with Jesus. It may take you to do something foolish, like dipping water out of a vat and taking it to someone's home with water in the water. It may take the walk in your closet, to pee, to plead to Jesus, to feel and respond. It may take the force of desperation. It may take the force in the midst of a shameful situation. It may trust to make peace. It may trust to make peace. It may trust to make peace.

Just be careful not to require the holidays. That's the way the Pharisees run. They make assumptions and requires them. And we're not saying that their assumptions are all wrong, but it's not universal. That's the difference. Okay. The Scripture says that he had no idea when he was here as who Jesus was. And I'm going to read it. Quote. Verse 13. The man who was here had no idea who it was. For Jesus to flip the way. The Jews have never confronted his superstition. In my many years of walking with Jesus, he'll often leave something that needs to be focused. Unquested. Because he's working on something else. Look at all of them. I mean, the Pharisees would be the exact opposite. What are you doing carrying your mess? I mean, the guy just got healed after 38 years.

What are you doing carrying your mess? You can't do that. That's not Jesus, okay. It's just not him. Jesus did later call from the temple. And note that stop saying it. Later, Jesus found him at the temple, said to him, "See? You're well again." Now, stop saying it. So, the reality is that sin takes you into a spiritual back alley where your soul might get mugged, and God doesn't want that. God gives hope to have a pastor. He doesn't give a pastor to you. And then the same verse, like the second verse of it. Jesus restored hope, and the man believed. Remember that this man was condemned by the religious leaders to be carrying his mess. He said, "Who told you to do this?" He said, "I don't know." But when he found out who it was, and Jesus confronted him, met him, talked to him, told him what not to do,

He said, "Yes to do is do." Wait, he found his presence. But let me tell you what it was. It was Jesus. God saves. Folks, this is the God who saves. Sometimes we need to do something for this. I draw in the water and let him take it to the water and do it, just because he said to do it. Sometimes we walk across the whole region of Galilee to desperately plead to Jesus to heal your son, and then walk back home because he said to do it. And sometimes we're so hopeless. That Jesus has to seek you out. Remember the story of all the sheep? One day before him? And what is the stuff you do? Sometimes we're so hopeless that he wants to speak to you out as you just sit by your hope for your house of mercy.

So there are two smart bones. Don McGee, you can make your way to the phone. There are two disciplines that the sisters give us to really address the place of hopelessness. There are spiritual disciplines that are not that we just do. I mean, coming to church, hearing the word church, reading the word. There are things that we just do on a regular basis for God for ongoing life, ongoing transformation, ongoing soul work, ongoing stuff inside of us. But then there are some disciplines that God gives us to give us something specific. And there are each two for those who are hopeless. Because I suspect there are some here for whom the president would be. The first is lament. And we're not going to do that today. We've done it in place. But if you are in a place of a plague of fruit and it won't go away, and you want to lament -- it's hard work, folks -- you want to lament -- I'm available.

Call the office. We'll make an appointment. I want to see you lamented. I will just have to go and we'll watch you who needs you in lamented. But there's a second discipline. There's a second discipline. There's a second discipline. There's a second smart bond. And it's a discipline in some ways. It sounds counterintuitive. But the Old Testament tells us to put on the bondness of faith for the spirit of heaven. If there is something about praise and declaring who God is, what he does, that allows us to hear the voice of God, even when we can't bring ourselves to believe it. I know there are some people who say, "I'm not going to worship God all as I fear." And I'm like, "No, that's not God's economy." Because we're in your treasure, and that's where you are involved.

And one of the disciplines is praying. And so, we're going to close our service with a time of praise. We're going to do that grab, some bean grab. And Donovan is going to sing over us. This is his verse in the air. Chapter 3 type song. God has restored his children. God dropped them back and he was no longer talking with sin against them. And in that, at the end of it, in verse 17, God says, "And I will rejoice over you this thing." And so, as Donovan does part of the song as a special song, it's really God speaking to us. I want to hear the Lord. I want it to be a moment to hear the Lord speaking over you, whatever your condition is. If you're in the dungeon, hear the gates. What about you?

And then when we turn to the chorus, if you would like, I invite you to join in being proud, being proud. Every debt that you ever had has been paid up in full by the grace of the Lord. Be proud. Be proud.
