ALL IN: Physical Body
2023-01-16
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s5Cb9rqTGqg

Thank you. Thank you. I don't know if it's maturity or just longevity, but hopefully some maturity. The longer that I grow in my faith, the more that I have really boiled down the invitation of Jesus. When people ask me, what is following Jesus all about? I like to quote his words in John chapter 10, and he says, I must come to give you life, and life more abundantly, life to the full. That is the invitation of Jesus. The problem is, for most of us, the problem is that abundant life, we would all say, sign me up. I want that. The problem is that abundant life is the result of us keening over the leadership of every area of our life over Jesus. That's the thing that we struggle with. We always say, sign me up for the abundant life.

I want more abundance in my life. However, when it comes to releasing control of different areas of our lives, we, you know, here's this part of my life, but I want to hold on to this part of my life, right? Anybody else looking at me on the lens, right? All right. So, the goal of our series here, this all-in series, is we're just going to look at the unique areas of our life, and ask the question, am I all-in? Am I giving the leadership of this area of my life over to Jesus? Why not, and what can you change about that moving forward? And because we hear that Kansas City is going to talk all about growing our attendance throughout our own life, we started the series by telling you about your wallet. And we're going to continue the series by talking about your body.

Man, this is a great growth plan, isn't it? There's probably going to be a few more tears here next week. So, man, I'm excited about how Matt handled the topic of money. Man, the mic is not all-in. I like that. All right. Hopefully, we'll give a moment.

Matt, he shared biblical truth about finances. He asked insuspective questions. And then he trusted God to work each of our lives. And I hope to do the same when it comes to our bodies. I hope to share biblical truth about our physical bodies. And I hope to ask some challenging questions. And I hope that each one of us will hear from God about how we might be all-in and giving him ownership, leadership out of our physical bodies. So, that's the plan for the day. Don't just pray, and then we will just start a photo. Thank you. Thank you for the truth that we are a wonderfully unique and unique. And each one of us, and it's only not all of us, for the truth of the truth of the truth of the truth of the truth.

And you made us the way that you made us the truth and the color and the size. You made us that way around with us. And you place a very place that's so that we might walk in a relationship with you in a city that lives in a space with others. So, I'm telling you this morning, you tell the ideas of our bodies, that you were telling us the way that we think about the physical world and how we're in and how we're in and how we're in and how we're in. So, I don't know if you can tell this by looking at me, but as I say, I was somewhat athletic, easily athletic, by a lot of sports. Um, I'd like to say that I was okay at everything, not good at anything, and that's, of course, how I describe in my abilities and sports.

And in case you think I'm up here, and this is like a humble brag on some of you who think I was, I was cool, I was also unruly creative. So, not trying to, you know, brag about my coolness or even just sharing with you, but, um, unlike a lot of my friends who played a lot of sports, I never got home to wait with me. Never, just didn't like it, never got home to wait, since all my friends who played sports grow up, they would look forward to everything, how things were supposed to go, what things were supposed to look like. I just never got into it. And so, a few months ago, I decided, like, hmm, I mean, I'm going to have to wait a little bit, and so I did what everyone would do, and I looked at them, and I looked at them at my friend group, and I said that I'm the most muscular person that I've known.

And so, that wasn't going to have to wait a little bit, and so, I mean, and so anyway, he's been a little bit, and he seemed to be excited about that. So, I texted him, and I said, hold on, you know, 40% worth of weight, she did this stuff. So, serve on those garage, she's a, you know, headstand and soccer coach, she understands weights and techniques and how all this stuff works. And so, he used to teach me how to do some different things, and I remember a few times, I would be giving up some progress, and I would start to do it, and maybe when I think I was trusting, and he would come over and read, and I was free to do it. And he would think, you've got to keep it open, and I'm like, dude, I don't know where I'm at, and they are as far out as I could possibly be, right?

And they were like, or just flat back, don't arch your back, don't arch your back, and I'm like, dude, my back, you could eat dinner off of my back, that's why I do so now. He's like, it's free to do it, right? And so, what had to happen is somebody had to come alongside me and show me a bad perspective, and I had thought that I was doing things to the right way, I had thought that I was trusting it, but it took an outside perspective to show me that I was getting off balance. And here's the thing about lifting weights with bad forms. It doesn't not accomplish anything. Like, you're still going to get some results, but they're going to be off balance, right? Maybe not a restaurant, it's going to be bigger than a restaurant, because they're going to go a long way.

And eventually, you might even get injured, right, or hurt. And so, the reason I share this with you is because I think, as I've looked at the American suits and think about how we think about our physical bodies and how we talk about our physical bodies in a way that we act with our bodies, is I think there's some bad ideas that have creeped into the American suits that have gotten us a little off balance in how we interact with our physical bodies. And so, what I want to do is just like Donovan came alongside me and said, hey, like, elbows in, front bed, all of those things. I want to just like come on the side of us as American suits and say, is it possible that we've let this bad idea creep into our minds,

and it's actually impacting the way that we live when it comes to our physical bodies? And you have some bad ideas that are leading to some bad behaviors. So, that's kind of what we're going to do the rest of the morning. I'm going to challenge us to think about some bad ideas. And oftentimes, what happens is we wouldn't necessarily hear these bad ideas and say, yeah, I believe that. But they creep in. They're like small, little, subtle lies that ultimately impact the way that we live. So, just be thinking about that as we talk about these things moving forward. The first idea, and these ideas all existed when Jesus was around. And when the New Testament was written, all of these things existed and impacted the way that Christians lived with the lives. As you can see, a lot of the Christians that I'm going to quote from this morning are in the book of either 1 Corinthians or 2 Corinthians.

The Corinthians church was struggling with these things. They had bad ideas about the physical body. And Paul was constantly trying to come alongside them and say, no, you're missing it. You're off bad ones. So, the first bad idea is this idea of, and for those of you that like to learn new words, maybe it's new words. It's called hedonism. And for those of you that don't care about learning new words, I've got a visible way to represent kind of the idea of behind hedonism, which is this. We elevate the physical over the spiritual. Actually, the farthest section of hedonism is that spiritual doesn't exist in the matter. But in the church, what this idea often creeps in is we overemphasize the physical body. It's an ideology that the body and physical pleasure is the ultimate human experience.

The experience on this earth is all we have to look forward to, so we better make the most of it. We see this unbalanced perspective creep into the fruits of the government easily to keep in some results. The first result I call YOLO. Anybody? YOLO? Right? YOLO we live once. So, eat whatever you want. Drink whatever you want. Do whatever you want with your bodies. Enjoy the moment no matter the consequence. It leads us to unhealthy eating, unhealthy substances, drinking, other substances, laziness. And unhealthy is new sexuality because we just want pleasure now. And we think that it's the only thing that we have to look forward to, so we're going to enjoy it. We're going to live it up to the 40th. And this idea often creeps into Christianity where we like the enjoyment of this world.

And if we're going to be sinful, we can end up idolizing them. We can end up making them ultimate. They become the thing that we look forward to, the thing that we live for. And not only is YOLO one of the things that happens out of this bad idea, but the other bad idea that comes from this is body idolatry. And you start to be obsessed with how you look, obsessed with how strong you are, with how long you're going to live, with how healthy you eat. And we invest all of our time and energy resources in taking care of our physical body.

This is all I had on. This is all I had on. So I want to maximize it to, like, four, six feet. We overwork. We can end up sometimes eating with things like body dysmorphia. And here's the other thing that comes along with body idolatry. Because we become very judgmental with people that don't prioritize the physical body. So, like, you see, my friend a little is eating, like, cheese stories, a friend star, you see what? Right? And so, like, these ideas creep into our idea about how we think about our body. And here's the thing about this, that's tricky, is there's glimmers of truth in this ideology. God created food and drinks and music and sexuality and competition and the beach. He created these things for us to enjoy. These things are meant for our enjoyment.

We are allowed to enjoy things on this earth. But what happens is when we over-elevate it, when we make it ultimate, instead of just an object that should point us to, should lead us to a good God who has given us the need. The body idolatry, the glimmer of truth in that is that our bodies are a gift that has been given to us by God. We should take care of them. We should be intentional about what goes into our bodies and what we do with our bodies because it is a gift from God. However, the pleasures of this world cannot compare to the eternal future that Jesus has secured for us through his resurrection. And we will be given new resurrected bodies in the future. So we can't idolize the physical over the screenshot.

I love what Paul says in 2 Corinthians. He says, while we live in these earthly bodies, we groan and sigh. Anybody? Anybody's back sore this morning? Anybody wake up with a headache? We groan and sigh. But it's not that we want to die and get rid of these bodies that close us. Rather, we want to put on our new bodies. Like, these physical bodies are good. They matter. But there's hope for the future that we have. So that these dying bodies will be swallowed up by life. God himself has prepared us for this. And he has guaranteed us this, giving us this Holy Spirit. So we are always confident, even though we know that as long as we live in these bodies, we are not at home with the Lord. See the tension there? Bodies matter.

They're good. Important. We should take care of them. But it's not ultimate. It's not even the goal. Our goal, whether we are fearing this body or away from this body, our goal is to please home. It's a balanced perspective. And we think, just like you look at the right side, I've got one side above the other side. I get unbalanced in my ideas about my physical body. This body matters. But there's far more hope for the future. That's why I have to think of the real estate. This is, I've moved a couple of times. And you put a down payment on your new house. You're still living in your old house. And then we take care of the old house, right? We take care of the old house. The old house still is important. It still has value.

Even though we're looking forward to, we know that there is a new place coming, but that doesn't devalue the place that we have running. No, no. Our bodies, they're important. They remember us to take care of them. But they are not ultimate. The enjoyment that we get from physical presence is not the ultimate thing. The body is a good gift from God. It is spiritual. You are meant to enjoy these pleasures. I think you've carried your bodies without putting your hope in either the pleasures you experience or the health that you have. If we put all of our hope in our bodies, all of our hope in this experience, we become unbeknownst. And here's the deal. The pleasures of this world are often out of our people. Like, you know, sometimes your life's good, things are good, and then your life's not good.

And so if our hope is in that, if our hope is in the pleasures of this world, and there's relational strife at home, there's difficulty at work, and there's not much enjoyment to be had around, then where do we have our hope? If our hope is in earthly satisfaction and enjoyment, and there's none of that to be found, it also leads to escape us. And we kind of disconnect from the reality that we're living in order to be taken from some form of pleasure outside of our circumstances. Which means you still on the brink for what that is for you. Maybe you play video games until 3 in the morning. Maybe you turn to substances. Maybe you turn to, when you're telling me, I don't know what it is for you, you know what it is.

But you know, if this idea is suited to your mind, and you're putting all of your hope in the enjoyment of this earth, and then life gets hard, you're going to look for enjoyment outside of real life, and it's going to lead to some pretty bad and unhealthy things. Also, with body I don't say, here's the thing, you don't have control over your health. Remember many friends that I have that, like, eat so healthy, work out, do all of this good stuff, and at the end of the day, you're not in control. You still get sick. You still get injured. You still have bad things coming. Your earthly bodies matter. Earthly enjoyment matters, but it's not ultimate. What we do with our physical bodies have spiritual implications. What do we make later? All right, bad idea number one, egoism.

Bad idea number two is Platonism or Gnosticism, kind of a two-edged sword here. I would visualize it like this. Spiritual is greater than physical. And these are kind of boiled down, simplified versions of these ideologies. There's really two levels to this ideology. One is that the body, the physical body, is stuck in great. And the only value it has is what connects you to the spiritual. Or you could go into the circle and say, the physical is totally broken. It's evil. It's fallen. Nothing good can come from it. So we disconnect ourselves from our physical existence. There's an equally unbiased perspective that leads to an unhealthy pattern of behavior that I call over-spiritualization. We don't know people like this. We only spend time emphasizing or focusing things that lead to food to have spiritual value.

We justify laziness and sin in areas of our life. And we believe that life is just about enduring this fallen, broken world so that one day we just get to die and escape this place and go to another place. This is Paul's ideology. God has given us our bodies in this world. This is what happens in the church. The Romans, they were saying, they were asking Paul, should I just keep on sinning? Because it doesn't matter. Like, I'm a failure. I've fallen. I've broken. So I'm just going to keep on doing all of these things. It doesn't matter. One day God's going to come. And he's going to forgive me. And I'm going to escape. And heaven's going to be real. And I can just do whatever I want in my physical body. Paul says, no.

He's giving you this body as a gift. What you do with it on earth matters. I've known seemingly spiritual people who spend all of their time and energy doing ministries, serving others, volunteering at their church. But the result is they ignore things like rest and exercise and eating healthy. All of these things are spiritual things. So we should prioritize. This is a healthy human existence. One of the godliest men I ever knew, mentored in my life. I mean, all he ever did was make time for other people. And the end result of that was the only time he had to eat food was fast food. And the only time he had to exercise was never. And, like, that's spiritual. Taking care of our body is spiritual. It's madness. Here's the deal. I don't think that if any of us, most of us knew freedom, if we sat down and took a written example on these two ideologies,

many of us would probably say that I agree with one of those two ideologies. But a little bit of them slipped into our minds and got us off balance in the way we actually behave with our lives. As many of us, I think, if we're not careful, we drifted into some unbalanced ideologies about our body. We think our back's straight, our elbows are tough game. But if somebody were to come alongside of you, which is my job today, you say, are they really, do you really have a balanced perspective about how you eat with your body? Do you overemphasize bodily pleasures as ultimate? Do you overeat, overdream, overrest, or make sexual experience an idol in your life? Are these the ultimate pleasures? That is all that you're striving and still with. Do you idolize your physical body?

Do you find more value in your identity of how fit you are, how far you can run, how much you can lift? Are you always trying to lose just one more percent of body fat? Do you only invest in things that you decide have spiritual values and physical things aren't spiritual and so you're not going to invest in those things, it doesn't matter. Do you justify sin because God is going to forgive you and just take you into heaven one day anyway, so what you do or else doesn't matter? Just think if we're really honest with ourselves, when you hear those questions, one or two of those are eating, maybe just a little bit of action. So Paul says to the Corinthians again in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, if there's going to realize that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who lives in you

and was given to you by God. You do not belong to yourself, for God bought you with a high price, so you must honor God with your body. What we do with our physical bodies is worship. It is spiritual. Your body is a gift from God. He made you on purpose and for a purpose. And I know for many of you, it is just hard to believe this morning. Please hear me. But it made you on purpose. He made you the way that he made you intentionally, nowadays. We've been called to respond with our bodies in worship. I love how Wendell Barry puts it. He says, there are no unsacred places. There are only sacred places and desecrated places. There are no spiritually neutral things. Either we participate, what we participate with our bodies either becomes spiritual or becomes unspiritual.

And so think about that. When you sit down at the dinner table, when you prioritize the schedule and events of your life, how can you make every moment of thinking? How can you respond to God? That he has bought your body, he has bought your time and your energy and your resources with the precious blood of Jesus. How do you respond to him in that? Don't desecrate your bodies by believing they're more valuable than they are or less valuable than they are. So, one of these, your idea is about how we go forward from now. What's the right thing to do? I would call it grateful stewardship. I tried to visualize it this way. I just got some scales, some weights, and just how we balance the spiritual and the physical. How do we respond to the gifts of God in a way that omens his thoughts for us?

Grateful stewardship is treating everything we have, including our bodies, as gifts from God that we should use according to his purposes. It's ultimately tying us into eternal realities. It's the thing we always, it's the thing I always say, on earth as it is in heaven, Winchester as it is in heaven. We know God's purposes for our lives, and we start to participate in those purposes here and on earth. We connect with God and worship. We love the Lord your God and follow your heart, soul, body, mind, strength, and you love your neighbor as yourself. We're using our physical bodies in a way that lines up with God's eternal reality. We will create it for worship, which includes what we do with our bodies. And worship will be our eternal existence. So, what we do with our bodies matter.

1 Corinthians 2.10, verse 31 says, Whether you eat or whether you drink, whatever you do, do it for the glory of God. Our bodies matter. We should respond to God in grateful spirits. Because I was thinking about a way to illustrate this. I was reminded of my favorite place on earth as a kid. One of my best friends from church growing up, they had this master's apple orchid. I don't know how big it is, but as a kid, it felt like it was hundreds of acres of apple orchid. And they had a 15-ton, and it was just outdoor galore. They had VTVs and tractors and animals and pigs and horses. It was literally my favorite place on earth. There was sled riding hills. There was places to play, having those seats in the box for hours and hours and hours.

It was the most fun place on earth. And I remember every time I went over there, I was just so jealous of, like, the things that they had access to. It's like the greatest place on earth. But as I got older, I realized that it honestly wasn't theirs at all. It didn't own the property. It was owned by a wealthy man in New York, Virginia. And Doug actually had entered into a contract with him where he was a land steward, a land manager. And he acted in offerings as if he owned the entire place. It was incredible. Like, I had no clue that he didn't own it. Everything, he enabled everything, managed everything, treated everything as if it was his own, with care and respect and with dignity, as if the owner was sitting there watching every moment of his day.

But that guy came, like, maybe twice a year to take him on the property. They just agreed on the purposes that Corrine would be used. And I think this is a perfect illustration of what grateful stewardship looks like. God has instructed you with your body, with your time, with your talent, with your resources. And God has given you good purposes to invest in those things. They are good works that God has prepared and engaged for you to do.

And so our job is to be grateful stewards. Here's the thing I was thinking about this morning, too, when I ran in. I thought that story's great. It sounds like all sunshine and rainbows. But as a part of Mr. Rain's, as well I'll call him, as a part of his responsibility as a rain steward, I remember one night late, and it was probably like a Thursday night, eight or a minute. I saw him look at the night on the door, and it's his wife. We opened the door, and she's like, hey, can I leave the kids with you? And my mom's like, sorry, what's going on? And she's like, Doug got bit by the top of it. Yeah, it was not good. He was in the hospital before. He was trying to split. We call him Fred Flintstone because his foot was like, it's great.

But here's the thing, like, sometimes living in a fallen world, stewarding broken land is going to lead to some difficulties, some challenges, to some brokenness. And so even when we're grateful stewards, even when we do the things that God's called us to do, even when we steward our bodies the way that he's called us to steward them, sometimes the fallenness of this world keeps me sick. Sickness, keeps me sick, difficult, and challenges, and it's in those moments when we can be tempted to look back to God and say, what are you doing? Why is this happening? I'm managing my life the way that he's called me to manage my life. I'm doing the things that he's called me to do. Why is this happening? It would be crazy for Mr. Reigns to call the owner of the land.

After he got built by a copperhead, he said, this is all your fault. You did this to me. You put me in this situation. You made this thing happen for me. There's an agreement. There's a responsibility there. And it would be insane in that moment to say, this is your fault. You know, there's a partnership, and land is sometimes difficult and challenging and needs to accidents and things like that. And the same is true for us, living in a fallen, broken world. We've been given bodies that God has called us to steward and has given us purposes to live alongside. And sometimes even when we're doing things the right way, difficulty and challenge coming. And that's why we can't put our ultimate hope in our physical bodies. We've got a resurrection that we look forward to, a hope for our future.

And so what we do with our bodies matters, but it doesn't matter to the ultimate extent. So, let's get really specific here. How do we steward our bodies well? Before, I'm going to end with some specific practical applications. Before I do that, I want to offer up a caveat. Because here's the reality. And we're in this big, we all have, each one of us has a different bodies. And we all have different challenges, struggles, disorders, sicknesses, family, history, and so on. I'm going to give some practical application. But you've got to flow through that through your own individual body. Romans 12, verse 2 says that we are to present our bodies. You are to present your body. Your body is different than my body. A living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God. There are people out of church that run ultimatums.

If I was to present my body to God the same way that they present their body to God, it would not be much of a living sacrifice. I stole that to the testament. I've got to get in the credit for that. When you're talking about it, I was asking you all in this folder. He was like, if I were to present my body to God, some people, not a living sacrifice. A sacrifice, but not a living one. So, I want to get practical, I want to think about what it looks like to steward our bodies. Well, this matters. This is worship. What you eat, what you do, how you use your time, it is spiritual. It has spiritual implications. And I'm sick of people disconnecting the physical from the spiritual and asking, like, what we do with our bodies here on earth.

Does it matter? It matters. So, this is what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 2 and 6, he's talking to the Christians, and they're saying that the thing that they were doing is cult prostitution, right? They were like, they're having sexual relationships with prostitutes and prostitutes. Don't you know that you're taking what is spiritual and you're desecrating it? You're taking something that's spiritual that matters for eternity, and you're doing something totally incongruent with what we have called you to live. So, what we do with our bodies now is that we'll run it through your physical body. You know you. Okay. First, I have to say something. Eat healthy and proportionately. This seems a little like a health class when I'm training at this point. But again, that's because I think in the American church, we've disconnected these two things so much.

So, when I get physical, practical application, we think it's not spiritual. This is spiritual. So, eating healthy and proportionately is spiritual. Food is meant for both enjoyment and to fuel your bodies to kingdom action. When we eat healthy, when we fuel our bodies with good things, we have more energy to invest in our neighbors and our friends and our family. We have more opportunity to partner with God in kingdom work. God's people in the Old Testament. We have these regular rhythms built into their calendar of both fasting and fasting. There was a time to celebrate. There was a time to enjoy through the way that God gave it to his eyes again. And there was a time to fast, to demonstrate that he didn't have mastery over them. Food is not for us. Strength is not for us.

A perfect illustration is I wrote up to your piece of money yesterday for my sister-in-law's 30th birthday. We just decided we were going to feast for her birthday. We were going to celebrate. We were going to enjoy food. My sister-in-law is a very health-conscious individual. She's also lactose intolerant. And so, she very rarely eats cheese or drinks milk or does any of that stuff. But when we get together to feast, she brings her latte with us. But I think she's just like, hey, I mean, we're feasting today. This is not a regular pattern of my life, but for this time, for this season, we're going to celebrate. It's a gift from God. She was a gift from God, but it did not become our idol. We should eat healthy and proportionately. What might it look like for you to view food and drink as an act of worship for enjoyment and for productivity?

I don't want to say I want to be spiritually curious, but I'm going to listen to your numbers. Process, behaviors, and I'm not the guy. I'm not the guy to tell you not to do it, because I am, I do it. But I mean, we live in a culture where it's far easier and far cheaper to eat really poorly. This is, this isn't actual worship. It has to be intentional. We have to plan ahead. We have to, we used to have an office down on the north end of Winchester. And there's, it's literally a food desert on the north end of Winchester. And so, when I want to tell you a quick lunch when I was in a hurry, it's almost impossible. Like, this is worship, plan in your head, being intentional with taking care of our physical body.

The, the, the conspiracy theory thing is, I think the government gets a lot of money from big sugar and stuff. Anyway. Anyway. Find what works for you and commit to it. Like, find a balanced perspective that works for your body and commit to it. And don't do it because you think the physical is ultimate. Do it as an act of worship. Do it as a grateful spirit. If we were to go back to the illustration of the land manager, he had a bunch of vehicles that he used to, to do the farming. And those, those vehicles were great for productivity, but they were only as great as he'd maintenance them on a regular basis. Which is our physical bodies. It's, it's the vehicle that, that allows us to be productive in the kingdom. It's the vehicle that allows us to connect with God and our neighbors.

And so, we should take care of it. Find what works best for you and commit to it. Second, exercise regularly. First Timothy 4 says that physical training is good. That training for godliness is much better. It comes to benefits in this life and the life comes. So many times I see people use that verse to, to say we shouldn't even worry about physical training. I'm like, it just says it's good. Yes, it's, it's not as good as spiritual training as discipleship. But what if we, what if we flip the script and we use our physical training as a way to worship? What if it became both physical and spiritually? Your bodies are capable of incredible things. They say they are regularly pushed young and what is comfortable. And that's subjective to all of us. That is, that is literally true.

Your body is capable of incredible things. What my body is capable of is probably not the ultimate, as I'm just, body is capable of. It's so incredible, it's, it's, it's capable of incredible things. God has made us fearfully and wondrously. And the Bible doesn't talk a lot about exercise, at least not from what I've been finding. Part of that, I think, is a cultural difference. Just like their jobs were exercised. Right? Like, their jobs were exercised. They didn't have access to process service. And so maybe, maybe this, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm blowing this out of this person. But the reality is, the, the culture that we live in, we access to really bad foods. And a lot of us have jobs that are not physical at all. And so, if we're going to take care of our bodies, it's going to have to be intentional.

It's going to have to be cleaned out. And it's going to have to take self-discipline. I think one of the, one of the two, the two biggest things that keep us from, from stewarding our bodies well is bad ideas and bad self-discipline. So, intentionally pushing your body as grateful stewards will look different for each of us. Do what works best for you. Do it regularly. Do it consistently. Do it with others. And do it outside. Press air is good for your mind, your body, and your soul. No, exercise can be worship. It can also be idolatry. So, figure it out for yourself. Third, rest intentionally. Jesus says, punch me all you who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest. Life on earth is tiring, stressful. The combination of work, school, family responsibilities, extracurricular activities,

they can all be overwhelming. It's worship to intentionally make time to rest. And I mean, like, actually rest. I think, I like to separate these two terms. I call it relaxation and rest. Relaxation is where, like, you just unplug, and you turn on Netflix for six hours, or you scroll on Instagram for six hours, or whatever it looks like for you. Well, here's the deal. It's like if your phone was down to, like, 20% charging and you just unplugged it. You're not killing the battery. But when you turn it back on, it's still going to be 20%. You're not recharging. You're just coming off. Race looks like silence and solitude. It looks like trying outside. Timeless friends who love you and love the Lord. Time to reach out. To fill up. Come to me. All who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest.

Learning to say no to important things, to prioritize regular rest. That's the only way it's going to happen. You're going to have to say no to stuff. I've been very spiritual people who are always busy for the kingdom, but aren't healthy because they never say no to spiritual rest. It's knowledge. Finally, this is the one some of you aren't going to like. If you like all the other ones looking, always be sober-minded. Jesus chapter 5, verse 16, says, be careful how you live. Don't live like fools, but like those who are wrong. Make the most of every opportunity in these evil days. Don't thoughtlessly, but understand what the Lord wants you to do. Do not be drunk with wine, because then it will ruin your life. Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit and defends for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

I'm not going to get into that Christian liberty is successful. There's plenty of substances that you may want to live in, and you may not want to live in, but the Scriptures are free to come. There's to be enjoyed in moderation, and no earthly substance to have control over you.

This is a cultural thing that we struggle with. I'm sitting on Instagram this morning, and a Christian comedian that I saw was talking about how he wanted to start dry January, and he didn't do it until January 4th. And it was like this joke, and everyone was like, I think it was funny, too. But at the same time, it's like we live in a culture that's so overwhelmed and just sounds that it's almost kind of just a cultural undertone. Like, don't think that a little bit is like this thing that we all just do to get through to the difficult times in heaven.

It's like abundant life that Jesus has offered. I'm going to give up to all the subtle life. She works so short, but it's so abundant life. I think that's what substance is all about. I've seen it in my own lives. I've seen it in the lives of people that I've cared about. She's sober-minded. It's not like substance has control over me. I'm all to be gracious through it. It's like I've seen some feeling of the duty of loving God. There's all of this that's done in the vehicles of our body, which require a regular and intentional maintenance. What was Justin Hamilton says? He said, So, so better. Lost our lives and love. Try to catch. He says this. He says, Care for your body can be fun. Not a body, but a daily and empowering project of love.

For yourself, love is an expression of gratitude for God's wonderful work. Taking care of your body is spiritual. It is worth it. Be careful. It teaches perspectives and values.

Again, I think the key obstacles that I've seen this role are God and ideas or God's justification. So, which is it for you? Are there ideas that have creeped into your mind and into your heart that have arrived inside? Think that the physical is ultimate and that all of your burning self-stretchments to come on this place? Or maybe you just drift with the outerwear and the physical doesn't matter and all these things in the outerwear and the spiritual are. Are you believing bad ideas? And if you're not believing bad ideas and you're still not stewarding your body well, then maybe you need to discipline it. Self-discipline is worship. All I'm sending your body is to God as a living self-define. Let's believe the right things about our bodies. Let's be grateful stewards who have good self-discipline and control around our bodies.

Let's pray, remember. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Father, we thank you and we are here for you and wonderful. We thank you that you give us food and food. This is what you said to me, to be enjoyed. Sometimes it can be challenging and difficult. Sometimes it can be ultimate. It can be all over in our lives. Sometimes it can have really bad ideas about our bodies because they're experiencing things from the fall. We don't understand it. We're confused on any reason. We're afraid that each one of us is learning as a view of our bodies as a gift for me. A gift to be taken care of, to be fluidized. As an act of worship. So remember, Lord, it is for our good. So we miss our life today. Amen.
