Resurrection Rumors: Bigger than your Failures
2023-05-08
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Evf6rNHdhyM

Thanks again for joining us this morning as you were awake and you missed announcements. My name is Brian. I have the privilege to be one of the pastors here. I'm really excited that you have joined us this morning. We are continuing a series that we have called Resurrection Rumors. We started this series on Easter Sunday. And there's a little bit of irony in the concept of Resurrection Rumors because ultimately that's how this whole thing started, right? Jesus appeared to some of his followers and these rumors that the one who had been crucified and buried actually wasn't dead started to spread all around the Roman world. And eventually what started out as rumors have become the foundation of the Christian faith. Billions of people have placed their entire lives on this claim that Jesus is God in the flesh.

That he conquered sin, death, and the graves proving his redemption claims to all who would respond to him through this resurrection. And so how we respond to these claims have massive impact on our lives. How we respond to it one time. Do we believe it? Do we not believe it? Is it true or is it not true? That one decision has massive big picture implications for our lives, the overall direction of our lives. But not only does the resurrection have big picture implications for the overall direction of our lives, but I believe it has real practical, daily implications for our lives today. The reality is we all have to keep on living a normal life. We all have to go to work. We all have to go to school. We all have to go to our family.

We have daily responsibilities. And so what does the resurrection mean for us on Monday afternoon, right? Like what does the resurrection mean for us in our real life situation? And I think what we've seen from these post-resurrection calendars, Jesus in the Scriptures is recorded showing up to his disciples and different followers around 10 times after his resurrection. And I think they're uniquely put there on purpose to show us some real-life implications for the resurrection in our lives. Last week we saw Jesus right after the resurrection, the day of his resurrection, showing up to two marginalized followers of Jesus walking away discouraged and confused. Next week we're going to see Jesus showing up to those who are doubting and maybe struggling with unbelief. We're going to see him show up to the confused, the complacent, the rebellious, the moral.

And so what are these, what is the resurrection? How does it have implications for those specific situations? And many of us can resonate with one or more of those ideas, but I know for a fact that all of us can resonate with the one we're going to look at this morning. See, this morning we're going to see how Jesus, the resurrected Jesus, shows up to face.

All right, let's pray and then we'll get there. Father, we are so thankful for the opportunity that we have this morning to sit in this room with other people who are at least wrestling with the claims of the resurrection. Some of us have placed our entire lives, we've rooted our lives in this truth, we're convinced of it. Some of us believe but are struggling with unbelief. Some of us aren't sure if this whole thing really happened or not. Wherever we find ourselves this morning, I know this human experience is we've all failed. We've all not lived up to what we had wanted to or hoped to at times in our lives. And I pray this morning that you would fill up, Holy Spirit, and you would teach us how the one, free, living God treats failures.

Just like you, like us, like me in this room. In Jesus' name I pray, amen. If you have your Bibles, you want to follow along, you can turn to John chapter 21. I think the Scriptures will be on the screen, maybe, maybe not. We'll see how that goes. But let's just like, let's not put pressure on our text, these people. Let's just open our Bibles. Does that sound good? So hopefully you have it on your phone or in your hands. We're going to be in John chapter 21 here in just a minute. All right. But before we get there, I want to just address something that we're going to find in the text, which is this story is kind of weird. The story of John chapter 1 is kind of weird, and it's even weirder in context.

Because what happens in the book of John is John is one of the most powerful pieces of religious literature known to me. It's incredible. Like, as any literary scholar of the day, they will tell you that the book of John is masterful religious literature. The way there's symbolism drawn throughout the entire thing, the entire structure of the book is built on seven island statements of Jesus and seven signs, miracles of Jesus culminating in his resurrection and his declaration that I am, claiming that he was God, Yahweh, that he was God. All of this culminating at the resurrection. In ending, we think, in chapter 20, verse 30, where it says, The disciples saw Jesus do many other miraculous signs in addition to the ones recorded in this book, that these are written. These seven signs and these seven I am statements are written so that you may continue to believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God,

and that by believing in him, you will have life by the power of his name. Amen and mic drop, right? John has clearly finished his gospel right there. Like, what are we doing here? Why is there now a weird story about a disciple who, kind of like a lackluster miracle, we're going to see Jesus do, like, not that impressive of a miracle, and then have breakfast with a few of his disciples. Why add that at the end of one of the most mass-sporting scenes of religious literature of all time? Well, as I was wrestling with this concept, I thought about the Marvel movies. How many Marvel movie scenes do we have in here? Some of you. I'm, like, a very casual Marvel movie thing. And so I remember going to the theaters to see one of the, like, I'm so casual, I don't even know the name of the movie that I saw.

But, like, Robert Downey Jr. was Iron Man. There was Falk. It was, I think, one of the first ones. And, like, the movie ends, and it's, like, an epic movie. And everybody that I'm with is, like, don't move. I'm, like, what do you mean, don't move? The movie's over. It was great. Let's move on. Let's go get some lunch, right? And they're, like, no, it's not over. An epilogue's coming. I'm, like, what do you mean an epilogue's coming? Apparently there's an epilogue in all of these movies. And essentially what I think is they're just trying to sell you the next movie before, you know, that's my concept. But for me, it was kind of a weird afterthought at the end of the credits. Like, what's this all about? Why did I waste my time watching four minutes of credits for this, like, one and a half minute clip or whatever, right?

But for Marvel fans, it's not that at all, right? Because they know the context. They know the world. They know the universe. They know the story. And so it all makes much more sense if you're a Marvel fan. And I think the same is true for this epilogue in John's Gospel, as he seems to finish his Gospel with these very powerful statements. I've written you this book with the seven I Am statements and the seven signs culminating in Jesus resurrecting from the dead, saying, I am God in the flesh. I wrote all of these things so that you might believe in the name of Jesus. He's done. No, he's not. And I think if we understand the context, if we can kind of put ourselves in the scenes of John, we can understand why this epilogue was worth writing down,

why he added to one of the most positive pieces of religious literature ever written. So some of us know the context, but still we're all on the same page. Let's go for it. Our main character of our epilogue is going to go by the name of Simon or Peter. Simon was a fisherman, rejected by the mainstream education system. So he was a Jewish boy, and all Jewish boys would be put into Torah school. They would be learning the law, and depending on how good you are, determine how far along you went. Peter didn't go very far in religious school. He became a fisherman because he was rejected by the mainstream religious institution. And the goal of the religious education system at the time would have been to get yourself a rabbi to follow. Every Jewish boy wanted to follow a rabbi.

So learn from a rabbi to spend their lives studying the law. Peter didn't make it very far. He was a dropout, fisherman. And one of the most influential rabbis, Evelyn, called Peter by name. He called him out of mediocrity, out of rejection, and he said, you follow me. This would be like, this would be like, like the dean of Jewelry Yard coming up to a street musician and saying, come with me. I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to turn you into something that you can't even imagine. Follow after me. And so Peter goes on this journey with Jesus. He becomes the first among all the disciples. I know this because Peter is talked about and talked to more than anyone in all of the Gospels except for Jesus himself. Peter spends every waking moment with Jesus for three years.

He gets to participate in the feeding of 5,000. He does this ridiculous thing where he jumps out of the water in the middle of a storm and he actually walks on the water. He's the first to confess Christ as Messiah. Jesus says that you heard the referee from God on death. He sees Lazarus raised from the dead and then he's bold enough to risk his life for Jesus in the garden. Because so many women soldiers are coming. He lifts out his sword and, you know, that's like Peter. Some of us know, some of us don't. But that's just how it goes, right? And after all of this history, all of this relationship, the highs of the highs and the lowest of the lows, Peter is with Jesus through the law. And then at the very end, right before Jesus goes to the cross, he tells, Peter, we're going to betray you.

All of you are going to betray you. You're all going to walk away. And like Peter often does, he's like, everybody else might. Not me. Like these fools? Probably. You know who I am? I'm Peter. I'm the rock. You're going to build your church on me. Remember? You said that. I said, well, check for you.

And Jesus says, Peter, I'll tell you the truth before the night is over, you will betray me three times. And after three years of following this rabbi, called for mediocrity and to a life-changing opportunity, three years of bold obedience, three years of being the miraculous, three years of getting one of the most privileged positions in human history, three years of believing your life is going to have lasting and eternal intake. And in one night, you throw it all away, three times. Demanding that you even know this Jesus of Christ. Peter portrays his hero and his best friend, the failure of epic proportions. He did the one thing he's poor he would never do. Imagine with me the guilt and the sin. The despair and self-seacher. The feeling of failure that leaves your stomach feeling like it's an empty laundry dryer on some cycles.

Anybody ever felt that? Anybody ever been mad? Have you ever experienced similar failure? Have you ever betrayed a loved one or a friend? Have you ever turned your back on God?

I know I have, far more often than I'd like to confess to all of you this morning. And whether you admit it or not, we all have. Part of the point of this story, this epilogue at the end of John's amazing gospel, is that I am Peter. You are Peter. We are all Peter. We have all failed. We have all turned our back on the God that loves us, created us, and desires a relationship with us. So then, the question becomes, how does Jesus respond to his friends that failed and betrayed him? And what might that teach us about how the resurrected Jesus responds to us in the midst of our failure and all betrayals? John chapter 21, it says this later, Jesus appeared again to his disciples beside the Sea of Galilee, and this is how it happened.

Several of the disciples were there, Simon Peter, Thomas, Nathaniel from Canaan, Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other disciples. Simon Peter said, I am going fishing. We'll come true, they all said. So they went out in the boat, and they caught nothing all night. But God, when Jesus was standing on the beach, but the disciples couldn't see who he was. He called out, fellows, had you caught any fish? No, they replied. And he said, throw out the net on the right-hand side of the boat. Every fish that man loves, when somebody else tells him, how can I see? Throw out the net on the other side of the boat when you'll get some. So they did, and they couldn't haul the net in because there were so many fish. Then the disciple of Jesus was, weird dog, by this and John, talking about himself, really weird dog there, said to Peter, it is the Lord.

When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he did, again, what Peter does. Put on his tunic for his strip for work, and he jumped into the water and headed to shore. The others stayed with the boat and pulled the net to shore. So they were only about 100 yards from shore. So by this point in the story, Jesus has already appeared to his disciples a few times. Peter, at least, at bare a minimum, knows that Jesus is alive. That he has a plan. He might not know what the plan is, but he knows. He's alive. He's got a plan.

Now, apparently, Peter thinks that he might have been disqualified from this plan. From participating in whatever plan this might be filled with guilt and shame, not really knowing what to do, Peter decides, I guess I'll go first thing. I don't know what else to do. This is what my life was before Jesus, and so I'm going to go back to that. And maybe, at worst, maybe I could, like, help fund whatever Jesus is playing in it. Like, maybe I can sell these first and give him the money. Maybe I can pay back some bit of my failures. So it was guilt, and so then Peter goes back to take time. After three years of epic adventures that probably feel like a lifetime, Peter finds himself back in the very same spot where it all began.

See, Peter was called out of his boat on the Sea of Galilee into a life of fire. And he was done after three years and three failures. He finds himself back in the spot. Will you see how good John is at writing? Anybody? Okay. So we're back in the same spot. And now all of us who have watched movies kind of know what's coming. Well, this is the scene in the movie where everyone knows what's coming except for the main characters. Peter's in the boat just doing the same, thinking it's all over with. And the camera comes to Jesus walking up the shore of the boat. And all of us know what's about to happen. Because we know the character of Jesus. He's about to remind Peter of his quality. He's about to tell him, you're not just qualified.

Do you know who I am? Do you know what I've called you to do? But Peter, of course, is cruel. And so what Jesus does here is he reenacts Peter's first calling. That's another miracle. It's just like the first miracle that he called Peter on earth. He's going to make faith appear where there were no faith. See, Jesus is clearly and lovingly trying to remind Peter that he's been called out of his old life of fishing and into his new life of discipleship or fishing for people. His failure has not disqualified him from ministry. As a matter of fact, it's actually equipping for older ministry in the future. This is the way of Jesus. Our failures don't disqualify us with Jesus. They actually equip us for future ministry. So Jesus shows up to reenact this calling, to remind Peter of the calling that he has received.

I can't help but wonder how many of us have been in similar positions, feeling disqualified from the relationship with God, or at least disqualified from being very useful to his kingdom. Whether you're here and you've been an atheist your entire life, turning your back on the God who created you, and you're a follower of Jesus who's blown up your life big time, like visibly big time, so that everyone can see, or some version of less failure, or maybe you look great on the outside to everyone, but you know that there's a secret pattern of sin in your life that you're just praying nobody find out of that. I'm here to tell you that the resurrected Jesus wants to draw near to you today, just by teaching near to Peter, and to remind you that you've been called to something greater than mediocrity.

You've been called out of your failure, out of your past life, and into a new life, and there's nothing that you can do to disqualify yourself from that calling. Scriptures clearly teach two specific callings, two specific invitations that God gives to people. The first calling is this general invitation to sinners who have separated themselves from God by their rebellion, individuals who haven't yet believed. Jesus calls you. He invites you to turn from your sin and to turn to God. He invites you out of the kingdom of darkness and into the kingdom of light, off of the wide road that leads to destruction, and onto the narrow road that leads to life. This call is the reason that Jesus came, to invite you into something better. He died on the cross when he rose to new life,

so that anyone who calls on the name of Jesus might be saved. It doesn't matter how long you've denied him, how much you did to obey these commands, or how many intellectual questions you still have on your sick. Jesus is calling you out of the boat, and I want to show you. Scripture says, Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your heart. So if you're here and you haven't yet responded to that first call, Jesus is calling you out of the boat, and I want to show you out of your past life of sin and shame and guilt and fear and anxiety and worry, and he's calling you into a license that you can serve. A lot of us in the room have responded to that call. And the Scriptures say that those who have responded to that call receive a second call.

Ephesians chapter 2 says, By grace you have been saved through sin. Not by works, so that you can both take credit for it. And then it says, You are God's worksmanship. Recreated in Christ to do good works that he created in the means that you do. So if we have responded to that first call, we've been given a second call. And that second call is the same call that Peter was given. You were a sister. Now you're going to be a sister of men. God has called us into ministry to do specific good works that he could get for you to do. Works that I can't do. With people that I don't know. In ministries that I haven't been called to. We have a calling. And so many of us, we know them. We remember a time when we felt the call of God on our lives.

And so many of us have walked away from that calling because we, like Peter, feel like we're disqualified. Because it's past failures, it's fear of future failures. And now it's this one, John. And Jesus is in the business of using failures to build his kingdom. And not only have your failures not disqualified you, but they've actually given you a unique calling that qualifies you more than anyone else to be qualified for that specific ministry. How often do we rob ourselves and the kingdom of a ministry that's coming out of our sin because we're not willing to do is that we'd rather hide it and pretend like it never happened. And Jesus here is telling Peter, it's time to deal with your sins so that I can turn this failure into a ministry. And so it's an irony.

The call of gifted and equipped followers of Jesus sitting on the bench because of guilt, fear, and sin. To quote one of my favorite worship artist, Katie Terrell Waltz, fear can go to hell and sin can go there too. Galatians chapter 2 says, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I that live, but Christ that lives through me. This is my paraphrase. It's going to start sounding me even specific. In the life that I now live on earth, I live by faith in the Son of God who loves me and gave himself up for me. I do not treat the cross as meaningless because of right standing before God came through my actions when I whitewash the cross of Jesus Christ, rendering it pointless. Paul's saying here in Galatians chapter 2, if you think that your ministry, your calling, has anything to do with you, you whitewash the cross of Jesus Christ.

Our calling, the foundation of both the first call and the second call, is rooted in the finished work of Jesus Christ. Jesus wants to remind Peter of his callings. And Peter seems to at least be getting the point because he jumps out of the boat. And we're going to see here a couple of times in this text, Peter and John have this like friendly rivalry going on. And Peter's like, yeah, or John's like, yeah, there goes Peter jumping out of the boat. And even though we were only a hundred yards from shore, like the boat's going to get there faster than Peter. But that's just what Peter does because he's starting to get it. The scene is coming into focus for him. He realizes Jesus is meeting you the same place he called me the first time.

But the same miracle he called me to remind me that I haven't disqualified myself for ministry. I'm going to go to him. I'm going to run to him. I'm going to run to him. At this point, Peter begins to see what's happening. In verse 9, when they got there, they found breakfast waiting for them, fish cooking over a charcoal fire and some bread. We're in some of the fish we've just caught, Jesus said. So Simon Peter went aboard and dragged the net to the shore. There were a hundred and fifty-three large fish. And yet the net came to him. Now, come and have some breakfast, Jesus said. Now, the disciples did ask him, Who are you? For they knew it was the Lord. Then Jesus served them, the bread and the faith. This was the third time Jesus served his disciples who had been raised from the dead.

After breakfast, Jesus asked by him and Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than me? Yes, Lord, Peter replied, You know that I love you. Then food my way in the sea, he called him. Jesus repeated the question, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Yes, Lord, Peter said. You know that I love you. Then take care of my feet, Jesus said. And the third time he asked him, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was hurt that Jesus asked the question a third time. He said, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Then food my feet. As Peter gets to the story, we begin to realize why John had included his upload in his gospel. This isn't a random story of a last and impressive miracle and a beachside breakfast.

It's a reenactment of both Peter's first calling and his failure that seemed to disqualify his ministry. What Jesus is doing here is he's teaching far more with the theme of the story than the script itself. He set up this entire encounter with Peter to remind him of his calling and to restore him from his failures. That's my main point for us this morning. That the resurrected Jesus wants to remind you of your calling and restore you from your failures. See, he brings Peter back to the very same place of his failure. Verse 9, it says, Peter gets to the beach, and what does he see? What does he smell? What does he experience? First, cooking over a charcoal fire. The only other time in that phrase, charcoal fire, is used in Scripture, you guessed it.

Peter's failing. Peter's failed Jesus. Rebelled against Jesus. Denied Jesus three times at the seams. Warming over a charcoal fire, and Jesus brings Peter to a charcoal fire to give him an opportunity in front of these disciples to confess, to repent, and to receive complete and full restoration from his failure. What an incredible epilogue the gentleman includes, brother. To show us of what the resurrection looks like in real life. Right? He wrote this masterful, deep, big picture-interfacing stories, chapters 1 through 20 and then 21. He said, do you want to know what it looks like in real life? This is it. You fail, and Jesus comes to you. You forget, and Jesus reminds you. Jesus brings Peter back to the place of his fail. You're not to rub it on his face, but to bring in complete restoration and healing.

I heard one pastor call it gospel for Jesus. Jesus is just on the gospel for Jesus for Peter. If you read this well, you can feel the truth from it. How might Peter feel when Jesus bring him back to the place of his failure? It's not a good place to be. If we're honest with ourselves, most of us, we don't like facing our failures. It's not fun. As a matter of fact, most of us would rather avoid our failures and pretend like they never happened than deal with them head on. We've got a big rug in our house to sleep on mistakes under. We've got a cork board where we post mistakes with other people, right? How often is it like, oh, I screwed up? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I just forget about that. Somebody else screwed up?

Let's plaster it on the wall, right? This is us. This is me. This is you. This is Peter. Anybody? Okay. What Jesus is demonstrating to Peter here is the healthy way to deal with failure, which is to confess it to God and to trust it to others and sisters in Jesus and move on. Scripture says, confess these things one to another so that you might be healed. Jesus said, don't ignore it. I'm brushed it under the rug. Don't hide it. Don't pretend like it never happened. Don't excuse my forgiveness and move on. Let this failure become a ministry. See, our failures can never become a ministry if there is somewhere underneath a rug. And so often, God wants to use his forgiveness, his redemption, his restoration in the biggest failures of our life, and we're not willing to give that up because we're afraid of what

people might think about us. And Jesus says, don't worry about that. I may love you. I have chosen you. I have forgiven you. Can't help but wonder how many of us are still walking in a disqualification. Because rather than confessing our sin and receiving forgiveness from the unconditional love of Jesus, we've flipped it under the rug or avoided it altogether. Peter is going to be a better citizen of the kingdom of God because of this in coming. And I believe that many of us will walk on a much state of sprendum and ministry if we're willing to address that sin headlong, to confess it, and to receive repentance.

See, repentance, forgiveness, it's free and happens in a moment. But there's something about someone who's sitting across the table from you and standing in your skin. It's healed, you're made whole. The moment we confess that sin is used for forgiveness. We did a sin and ask when you say, serve us. And I'm not from a rhetorical background. I've never experienced anything like this before. And Pastor Matt did this like exolation of guilt where we confessed our sins to God or to one another. And he looked at us and he said, as far as your confession is genuine, there's plenty of basic guilt. And it hit me. It's harder than it had ever hit me before. The guilt is my sins were already forgiven before Matt said anything. But there was this powerful moment that God gave to me when I got secured from a trusted

brother and said, you're significant. You're significant. You're restored. You're made whole. Don't let this sidetrack you. Don't let this put you on the base. You have been forgiven and redeemed. Not only does Jesus make Peter a face that's standing head on, but I think he's doing something even deeper here. I think he's making them face the root cause of his sins. See, even if we're like, get over the first hump to confess our sin, rarely, rarely do we get past the second hump where we actually acknowledge the root of the sin. Some of us are pretty good at like confessing the action, but we wouldn't actually make the root behind the empty one. And so, look at this first question that Jesus posed to Peter. He says, Simon, son of John, in front of the disciples, around the charcoal fire, do you

love me more than these? Scholars will debate about what Jesus is saying if he's referring to the notes of the boat or the disciples. But I think what Jesus is doing here is he's addressing the root cause of Peter's sin. Remember Peter's failure, Jesus said, you're going to deny me? What do you say? Maybe these guys, not me, maybe they're, like, imagine this, this is Peter, in the room with all the other disciples, and Jesus says, all of you are going to deny me. Jesus says, John, probably, Thomas Nathaniel, definitely, you know, like, and Peter's like, not me, not me, not me, I'm the one that's not going to follow you. I love you more than the rest of these. Turns out, maybe not, maybe not the fact, right? And so, Jesus is giving Peter an opportunity to help him see the root of his failure.

See, complete redemption from my failure, complete whole restoration, comes not just from confessing and repeating of the answer, but understanding the root cause behind the thing. This is why good therapy is important for probably most of us, right? Like, we, we, I, I, may we come out of this culture where, like, therapy and counseling is, like, taboo. Because most of us, like, we can't be it for ourselves. We need someone who we love, who we trust, who loves us, to say, like, hey, I know you think that you just denied Jesus three times because, you know, you're in a moment of weakness and it was dark and you didn't think you'd get caught and work. No, let me help you see what's behind that. Let me help you see what's underneath that. Because if you don't work, if you don't address what's underneath it, what's going to happen?

Is you might make it five minutes. The religious of us in the room might make it a day or a week or a few months. But we will come right back to the same way. We will sin in the same way or in a very similar way and we'll keep doing it and we'll keep attempting until we address the root cause of our sin. And I think what Jesus is doing here for Peter is he's saying, Peter, what was behind that sin of rebellion? What was behind that sin of rejection? I think for Peter, he still continues what other people thought of him. See, some of us, we read this and we're like, well, his life was in danger. Right? Like, he was afraid he was going to die. He's only about to be crucified.

Peter knows he's not afraid of dying. He's whipped out his thorn in a group full of soldiers and took a whack at somebody's ear. Like, he's not afraid of dying, but he is afraid of what a slave girl around the charcoal fire thinks about him. Right? And how many times do we do this? How many times do we address the sin, but we ignore the root behind the sin? And Jesus here knows that full, complete restoration that leads to long-term victory over sin happens when we address it at the root cause. And we don't just confess the action, but we confess the motivation behind the action. See, so many of us, we have idols set up in our hearts to other gods. And the idols, they reveal themselves in different ways, whether the idol is pride or what other people think about you or pleasure or whatever that idol is.

We all manifest in different sin. So we could just keep confessing the sin, and maybe if we're really good, like, we'll stop that sin, but then we'll find another sin that's similar that gives us the same, you know, pleasure or whatever. And what we have to do is we've got to get over the sin thing and get to the idol thing. What idol in your heart are you worth being over, God? And we understand that. And I can't do that for you in a 35-minute message in a room this big. I can't. But I trust that the Holy Spirit, through good relationships with brothers and sisters in Christ, if you would be vulnerable enough, if you would reach out to someone that loves Jesus and loves you, and you'd say, look out, I'm struggling here.

I keep gossiping about my co-worker behind my back. I keep having one too many drinks at the back. I keep scrolling on the wrong areas of a secret place. I can't put TikTok on me. Right? Like, I don't know what it is. I could spend the rest of the day getting hypotheticals, but it needs to be you and the Holy Spirit. And this is what Jesus does with Peter. He regards him the root cause of his sin. So that he can receive forgiveness and redemption. And the Scriptures 3 is a pattern of completion and holiness. Jesus wants Peter to know by repeating those questions, and you love me three times. He wants Peter to know you've been completely forgiven, completely restored. No matter how much you fail, fall away, or rebel, the eternal forgiveness of Jesus is freely ours through faith and trust in him.

It's always available. This is the good news. Secure to us through his death, burial, and resurrection. Pastor, I'd like to listen to you physically say, performance is not the currency of Christ's relationship with us. His love, the crops only, is the currency of his relationship with us. So Jesus reminds Peter three times. Forgiveness, restoration, healing is available to you. The resurrected Jesus draws near to failures like Peter, and like you and like me, to remind us of our calling and to restore us of our failure. In a culture that's eager to cure for you for a single failure, Jesus is eager to restore you completely for a lifetime of failures. Just breathe that out a little bit, right? I don't know about you, but there's anxiety in living in this culture where you said a wrong thing.

One time I was just in a kid's room this morning with a couple of buddies, and I said something, and I was like, where did that come from? And if it was on Twitter, I would have been punished. Right? In a culture that's eager to cancel you, the chair of the board's looking at me like, I'm going to have to hear whatever that was. In a culture that's eager to cancel you, Jesus is eager to restore you completely for a lifetime of failures. Will you receive that forgiveness and walk-in? I don't have much time to get to the rest of the passage, but there's a weird thing that happened at the end. Verse 18, Jesus says, I tell you the truth. When you were young, you were able to do as you liked. You dressed yourself, and you went wherever you wanted to go.

But when you were old, you will stretch out your hands, and others will dress you and take you where you do not want to go. Sweet. Thankfully, John gave us the explanation, because I wouldn't have been able to figure that out. He said, Jesus said this to let him know by what kind of death he would glorify God. We know historically that Peter was crucified outside of me. Jesus told him, follow me. And here's what's beautiful about this. As confidently as Jesus predicted Peter's failure, he just as confidently predicts Peter's faithfulness. He says, you're going to die for him, Peter. You're going to deny me, he's like, no way. Now, Jesus looks at him, he's received complete wholeness and forgiveness. You realize you haven't been qualified, you've been reminded of your calling, you've been restored sincerely,

and you are going to be faithful to the end. And I love that one of the last things that Jesus says to Peter is one of the same first things that Jesus says to Peter. Follow me.

Same as two of us. I think I'll be wondering if there's some of us in here that have said yes to that first invitation, that have gotten discouraged, a fail of a solemn spirit. Jesus wants to say, it's time to recommit to me. You're going to be faithful to the end. Re-finding me.

Some of us will say yes to Jesus and we'll be blown away by the incredible amount of favor and blessing in our lives. We'll die old and grow, surrounded by a room full of loved ones. And others of us will say the same yes to the same invitation and say stifth and lost and persecution and broken relationships in our lives will be difficult. And no matter what, I think that's point to Peter here is the same as this point to you, and are you willing to trust him no matter the circumstances? How has I not given myself faithfully? How has I not given myself victory? Jesus' post-resurrection in Calma shows us clearly God's heart to us in the midst of our biggest difficulties. He wants to remind us of our calling, restore us of our sin,

and re-invite us to follow him. Because following Jesus is always better than the alternative. How will we respond? Have you accepted God's call in your life? Have you received complete forgiveness from your sins? And are you willing to trust and follow him no matter the circumstances? I'll let you deal with that yourself. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for this epilogue in the book of John. So often you give us these big picture theological truths that you mean so much for our eternity. And so often it's hard for us to take that and pull in the flag. Every day we're on a real quick expansion. And you did that for us this morning. You did that for us in John 2, 21. You showed us what the resurrection means for our daily lives. And you fail you when we fall short, when we reject you, when we regard you, when we deny you. You draw near to us, to remind us of our sin.

To restore us from our failures. And to re-invite us to follow you. And for people in the room who are anything like me, this process happens multiple times a day. But man, are you good? Man, do you welcome me with open arms? Man, do you leave the nominee in the room to come answer me when I'm just out walking in the wrong direction? Man, do you receive that truth this morning? And then we figure out what is the root cause of this thing that keeps maddening us, that keeps drawing us away from you. And we get together with the brother and sister and Jesus that we trust. And we follow the counsel or the therapist that we have been wanting to call from one of our lives. And we find the help we need to deal with the root cause of our depression or anxiety or rethalium,

whatever it is. So we can live free, abundant, obedient lives to you, so we can be healthy, fruitful for those things of the kingdom of God. And that as we do that, may you show up. May you display the kingdom of God. And so.

Thanks for this in heaven. For your glory and every day. In the name of God. Amen. All right. We are going to end this morning by taking a community together. And Dr. Grant signed me this morning to come to, like, praise instructions in my head. And he said, why don't you draw yourself a man? And he said, well, that's what I do. I draw myself a man. And I hope it's going to work. So if you are in here and you are a follower of Jesus, I'm going to pay in this room to practice open communion, which means we're trusting you to know whether or not you have placed your faith in yourself than Jesus. We're not going to stop you at the communion table and say, are you straight? Right? That would be rude.

But some churches say only members can pursue you. That's not how we do it here. We say, if you are a follower of Jesus, if you're here and here, you're not a follower of Jesus, you need a church, I'm not going to make you come up and do this weird thing, because it is weird for you. It's not weird for us. It's weird for you. And that's kind of the point. So dividing along in the community. So here's all of Jesus left and right to come forward to take communion. This section is going to come down this row, get it, and go back that way. This section is going to come out that way to the back table and come back this way. We're tracking you through that. You guys, uh-oh, this word gets smooth.

We're going to come out this way to this table and back this way. You got it? And then you guys, we're going to go that way to the back table and come down this way. You good? All right. Good luck. Godspeed. I'll be back in a minute.
