Resurrection Rumors: Saul's Conversion
2023-05-29
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lvDt4fY34s4

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

We just don't have time, unfortunately. So, that seems a great way for you guys to get connected and to find out. You can register for the gimmicks and register for things that are going on. So, be sure to check that out. But the three things that I want to share with you. Coming up, this weekend we have two events. One of them is Friday night. We're going to have a Monday special here at the church from 6 to 8. We would love for you to bring this week or a savory this to Sarah. It's always more fun to sell us a day before, right? One really cool thing about that is we are going to have a very special announcement on a Sunday night. But now, our Ladies Retreat, which is coming up in November.

That is another event that you can register for during the past. We would love to have you be a part of that as well. We have 50 spots for that. So, do you search for your own safety spot? Saturday, which is June 3rd, we are going to have a church work day. We are going to be very diligent to be good stewards of the building. So, we're just going to take the time to fix it up, to make it look nice. And so, many things make slight work to welcome you to have as many of you who are available to come and help us with that. And that's from 6 to 8. And lastly, the last thing I'd like to tell you is June 17th. From 9 to 4, we are going to have a very special opportunity.

We are having a seminar during the Dr. Mu. And this is really, this is a really amazing time to have someone come here at the church. And he's going to be talking to you at the peak of Hebrews. So, it's going to be very special and you definitely want to like it in this room. All right. And I just think that's all it's all. We didn't thank you for coming and visiting with us this morning and joining us. And we would like for you to go to the stand. We're going to have a time of worship. While I'm standing, let's give a hand of applause to our worship team. They have amazing talents that God is giving them. And they serve them as I'm still listening. Does that make sense? Okay. Very sweet. It sounds even better than the microphone.

It's a few more. Sounds good. Welcome. I love spring. I mean, is this morning is perfect? It sounds like I'm going to be right now. But besides that, let's just wear this day. Let's celebrate it. Let's stay in the top of our lungs. And we're done with the glory this morning, Lord. And we're done with the glory this morning. And we're done with the glory this morning. And we're done with the glory this morning.

We're done with the glory this morning. And we're done with the glory this morning. And we're done with the glory this morning. And we're done with the glory this morning.

So I want to have the privilege of being one of the pastors here. And I am excited to be wrapping up this series that we started in Easter. Called Resurrection Rumors. Where we're looking at the post-resurrection encounters of Jesus. These have died, buried, rose again. And then shows up to different followers throughout a number of days. As spins into heaven. Talked about that last Sunday. And learned to have one more encounter after the extension that we're going to cover today. But I want to recap this series a little bit to put everything in context. Because I think the whole series essentially kind of hammered in this one phrase, which is the resurrection and tell them to demonstrate God's character to his people. God shows up to his people after the resurrection. Hurting, struggling, discouraged, disappointed.

Different believers struggling with different things in the resurrection. The resurrection of the resurrected Jesus shows up to demonstrate the true character of God to his people. Many of you have heard that Tim Keller passed away recently. And so a lot of his quotes have been resurfaced on one one. And I heard this quote this week. And I think it really sets us up to kind of go back through the series. He said, if the resurrection is true, everything is going to be okay. If the resurrection is true, everything is going to be okay. And that's what Jesus does to each different follower that he shows up to in these resurrection encounters. He shows up to Mary and the eleven when they're hurting. They've lost their best friend and everything they gave their lives to seems to be falling apart.

And he shows up to give hope to the hurting. He shows up to the Emmaus disciples who are walking away discouraged and disillusioned about what it meant to follow Jesus. And he gives those who are discouraged encouragement. He shows up to Peter who's failed ethically. And he restores and forgives the failures. He shows up to Thomas who's doubting, struggling with his faith. And he gives evidence to those who are struggling with God. And he gives thanks to him and shows up to followers of Jesus who seem to be without purpose, knowing what's next. And he gives them an eternal purpose. And that is true of all of us who would consider ourselves followers of Jesus today. The resurrected Jesus gives hope to the hurting. Encouragement to the describes. Forgiveness and restoration to the failures. Evidence to the doubting.

And eternal purpose to those who are struggling with faith. But that's where we've been throughout this period. And we have one more to go. I'm not going to give it away because then you wouldn't have to listen for the next phrase up in a minute. So let's pray and then we'll have them to all around us in common. Father, I thank you so much for the opportunity that we have to take a look at your Scriptures. Take a look at this resurrection encounter. To fall on the road to the ninth place. May we learn more about your character from the resurrection of Jesus. And how your character in life. To fall brokenness in this broken world. May we learn more about who you are. God, may we know you more because we are here today.

May we hear your voice. May we listen to your words and may we act accordingly. Holy Spirit, speak through me. This morning in Jesus' name, my Father. Amen. So you want to follow along with me. We're going to do Acts chapter 9. You can turn to Acts chapter 9. It's the main text where we see Saul's encounter along the road to Damascus. But later, in Acts chapter 22 and in Acts chapter 26, Saul himself will recount this encounter. And so what I did, so we have all of it kind of in one section together. We're going to spend most of our time in Acts 9. But I just bracketed some extra items that Paul tells us in Acts 22 and Acts chapter 26. So as you see, if you're in Acts 9 and you're reading, I'm going to add something that isn't through the Scriptures.

I'll tell us it's about me adding something through the Scriptures. We've taken something from chapter 22 and chapter 26 and inserting it in chapter 9. It should be on the screen. If you don't believe me, so accept me. Definitely. I don't know. That's what we're all about here. So I'll just turn in there. I remember a few years ago, Marissa and I were living in West Virginia. And we had some friends that live up in the cross-country, invited us to the social gathering. We're cool. We're hip. We didn't like things. It's great. And we were running a bit late, of course. And you know when you're running late to the social gathering, there's some teaching in the room. And so we hopped in the car and went in to our friend's house. I've been to there.

They had recently moved. They had been at their new house one time. And what you need to know about me is when I go somewhere for the first time, I use the GPS. When I go somewhere for the second time, I try really hard not to use the GPS. And like, I'm humble, right? Right? I think I'm humble. So what I do is I have the address in the GPS loaded, but I don't click, like, go until I, like, don't know what I'm doing. Like, I'm going to do my best to get there, but I'll have it ready. And so we're heading to the house. And then, you know, there's two things because we're running late. Also, I'm offended. And so I'm humble, right? And no one said anything. So if we want to set up some, like, accountability confrontation conversations, like, email on me at

running at English. No one said anything. No one said anything. No one said anything. I'm trying to get there without the GPS. I think I know where I'm going. And so we're heading down 37 and past the exit for 522. Marissa's like, pretty soon, but that's the exit. I'm like, no, it's definitely not so sweet. It's the hospital road. And so I moved to Frederick Henry. 522 and 50 were the same road in my mind. And they had the same direction. They looked the same. They've been the same way. And so, like, Marissa was right. It was 522. And so I was convinced that it was frisky. And so I'm like, no, so they just kept the GPS. And I'm like, you know where I'm going. And she knew that I didn't know, but, you know, she's a lot of life.

And so she gave the patience to me, even though we were at Eddie Lake. And so about 15 minutes down 50, nothing was looking familiar with. I'm looking for, like, discharming the market because that was my go-to. Like, okay, that's -- I need a 10 scene after this. And so I hit the GPS. It turns out I was running, and we were headed in the wrong direction. And so I had to turn around. But what happened there is I was blindly convinced of my own idea. And I was pardoned to the truth, and I doubled down on my own bad ideas. Anybody ever done anything like this before? So a lot of us, we've done this before, and we do it over small things, seemingly small things like how to get to the same place, right?

But I've heard a pastor wanting us to see this happen on much deeper, rooted issues. I've seen these friendships and family relationships completely destroyed because somebody dug their heels and them bagged. They were wrong, you know, wouldn't listen to anyone who loves them, who might be able to speak speech and kill on us. I'd like to refer to this as certain key blindness. Like, we're so convinced that we know it's right that we become blind to any accountability. We become blind to any other ideas. And this seems to be the main issue that the main character of our story is struggling with this morning. And this seems to be so convinced of his religious ideology that it leads him on mission to kill, torture, and imprison the first followers of Jesus. Can you imagine being so convinced of his spiritual beliefs that he would be willing to murder, torture, or kill someone over it?

Most of us have moved past the killing thing. Thank you. But, if we're honest, if we look around our social media channels, we say some pretty mean things. We have some pretty harsh conversations. But that feels dug in on all of ideology. This is where we see us all in our chapter 1, verse 1. It says, "This man of Saul was grieved in threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord. He went to the high priest and requested letters from him to the synagogues and Damascus, so that if he found any men or women who blamed him to the way he might bring them as prisoners to Jerusalem." So, Luke, the writer of that, introduces us to a new character, Saul. We've been introduced to him once before in chapter 7. And he is collecting the coats of religious people who are stoning Stephen to death.

And the beautiful thing about Acts chapter 7 is right before Stephen gets stoned to death, he preaches like one of the best fervents to these religious readers. He goes through the entire history of the nation of Israel, telling them each time and place in which they misunderstood the processing about the coming of the side. It's like the most convicting, challenging sermon ever. And Saul's sitting there listening, he's becoming enraged, doubling down on his ideology, refusing to listen to anyone that has any different idea or interpretation. And then Saul's going to double down again. Not only is he going to be a part of the stoning of Stephen, but now he's going to go a hundred miles out of his way to Damascus to find more of these followers of the way so that he can torture and kill them.

Before we begin to pick up our stones and throw them at Saul, let's try and empathize with his story a little bit. Saul writes this about himself in Philippians chapter 3. his background, his history, his childhood. He says, "I was circumcised the eighth day of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrews. Regarding the law, I was a Pharisee. Regarding zeal, I persecuted the church. Regarding righteousness within the law, I was brainwashed." So Saul grew up in this religious, ideological system, this brainwashed. He was a Jew of Jews, zealous for the law of God. And in the Old Testament, what was set up for Israel was a theocracy, where God was supposed to be king. But what happened is that something faded away, and they were sent into exile,

and they saw a theocracy in exile waiting for the Messiah to come. Because they were waiting for the Messiah to come, they were waiting for God to restore these promises to them. Saul's teachers lived in an enemy to God's plan. And so because Saul is a Pharisee, he's jealous for the law of God, these followers of Jesus come in and they're teaching something that he thinks is contrary to the Old Testament law. And so he's viewing them as an enemy to God's plan of salvation. God's plan of salvation to the nation of Israel, which was also the plan of salvation to the entire world. So you could see there's Saul, he's misguided, but he has this compassion in his heart. He wants salvation to come to the nation of Israel, because then salvation will come to the rest of the world.

And although from our perspective this is clearly not God's plan, I'm going to say this point in 20, Saul usually could have priest-texted the Old Testament to justify his behavior. This is where Saul is at. This is where Saul is at. Stephen strongly seems to enraged him and calls him to double down on his hatred. So, as the resurrected Jesus interacts with an angry, bitter, rigid commandment who's digging in his heels on the way of theology. That's a commandment so bitter, so angry, that he's actually going after the following Jesus. And how would Jesus want to laugh with such a man? Verse 3: "As he traveled and he was nearing Damascus..." I love that Jesus wrote it so he almost got this destination. The point at which his heart would have been the most hardened towards followers of Jesus.

"As he was nearing Damascus, a light from heaven suddenly flashed around him, falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the believers." So, at the point in which Saul's heart was the most hard, Jesus points to him and lovingly confronts him for his bad ideas, for this bad theology that's leading ultimately to wicked and evil behavior. You might be thinking, "A flasperance in heaven "doesn't necessarily seem very loving and compassionate." Well, like Jesus just goes up, bang, right? Saul falls on his horse, like, face to the ground. You're like, "That's loving? That's compassionate?" But if we look at the following conversation that Jesus has with Saul, we'll see a couple of elements that demonstrate God's compassion to Saul.

First, the introduction, the way that he speaks to him, he says, "Saul, Saul." Two other times in Luke's Gospel, we see Jesus giving a similar introduction to people. The first is with Martha. Jesus says, "Martha, Martha." If you know the story, what's going on is Mary and Martha's sisters, Jesus is coming over their house. And Mary's sitting at the feet of Jesus, listening to his teachings. And Martha's in the kitchen, like, "Come to rip up enough food for everyone in the entire table." Because usually when Jesus fills up, people flock, right? So Martha's like, "People are going to get here. I need enough food for everyone." And Mary's not helping you. She's sitting there listening to you teach about whatever you're teaching about. "I need some help." And Jesus, with two ten things, says, "Martha, Martha."

You're worried about many things, but only one thing is necessary. And then the second time, he does this double introduction to the city of Jerusalem. As he's entering the city of Jerusalem towards the end of his life, right before he's going to be crucified, he says, "Jerusalem, Jerusalem. And all of a sudden, I wanted to gather your children together as a hand gathers the chicks under her wings that you were not willing." And so when Luke records this small, small, you can kind of take a sense of he's tying these ideas together. And when Jesus fills up and introduces himself, what he goes to say, "You're missing it." Martha, you're missing it. You're trying so hard to please me, but the one thing that matters most to me is missed. So this one, this one, you're missing it.

The enormous Messiah who brings salvation has come, and you've reached it. Jesus says, "Saw, Saul." He's missed it. You want some those for me so boldly, you're so convinced of the truth of the Old Testament that when the Messiah himself fills up, he's missed it, and Jesus has his compassion for God. You can hear it in this Bible introduction. Amen. The first question that he asks is so important. He says, "Why, then, are you persecuting?" He says, "What do you think you're doing?" He goes straight to the behavior, and he goes straight to the motivation. Now, what are you doing, but why are you doing this? See, one of the common misconceptions about Christianity is that God is a moral policeman obsessed with behaviors, when in reality, he's a loving Father who is obsessed with your heart.

And so, if God was this moral policeman, he would just show up and say, "You're doing something you're not supposed to be doing, stop it." But instead, he's a loving Father who cares about God. How did you get here? How did you get from being a Hebrew of Hebrews, a Jew of Jews, a Pharisee, and you love my world so much? You claim to love Yahweh with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and when Yahweh fills up in the flesh, you miss him. I am persecuting you. How did this happen? Jesus asks this question because he wants God to examine the weak cause of his hatred. He wants God to consider whether or not he is as righteous as if he has convinced himself that it is. When we are struggling with sinful behaviors and attitudes, when we're trying to make a

difficult decision, why is the most important question that we can answer. Because the why always has implications for the what and the hell. So, Jesus says, "I'm sorry, you're missing it. I love you so much, you're missing it. Why are you persecuting me?" And then he says, "It is hard for you to kick against the goats." This is weird because we don't know what goats are. But essentially, he hooks to kind of poke us in the right direction. And so, Jesus kind of knows that when I don't want to go the direction like a leader wants somebody to go, they rebelled and you get poked. It's painful, but it pushes you in the right direction. And so, Jesus knows that Saul's been convicted, that he's been working. And I think part of this is even similar, right?

Like, Saul's heard this perfect sermon about the Messiah coming. "And God's secondess heart, personal enemy, so as your belly is digging his heels down deep. He's doubling down and he's certainly blind, certainly too blind. It's hard for you to keep against the goats. Can any of us, right? Have you ever found ourselves angry or bitter with God or his people? Fighting against the conviction and direction that are calling in our lives? Have you ever been so convinced of your own ideology that it caused you to rebel against God and it may end up causing you pain, repeating to those around you? See, this passage this week has really made me consider how many blind spots I might have in my own life. How many blind ideas about who that is and how he wants me to live might exist in my mind and in my heart.

And past the Lord, I see this throughout our church, throughout the church in America. I see this happening mostly in three main categories. You guys have heard me say this before. I'm looking for a opportunity to send me. So, if you're really convicted about the first, don't worry. I'll get somebody else at the second time. If you're really a man who won the first time, don't worry. You'll be happier if you won the second time. Right? We're good? Okay. The first area I see us blinded by our own bone ideology is we can become blinded by religious ideology. This was Paul's major issue. He was so convinced of his theology. He so loved the law of God that when God in himself showed up in the flesh, he totally missed him. I can't help but wonder how many of us have done our heels in on bad biblical interpretation or bad application of good biblical interpretation.

And as a result, we've ended up bowing against God when in our hearts was an effort to obey him. How often do we speak to obey them? Because we don't stop and actually listen to what God has to say to us. See, we call a God in our own image and we call him Jesus. And we do this on every side of the aisle with every issue. Do you name your issue? How often do we make God the thing that we want him to be and then call him Jesus? And then priest press a passage or two where Jesus looks the way that we want him to look and ignore all of the other passages about the behavior that we're going to actually obey. Blinded by religious ideology. I think one of the biggest examples or at least in American Christianity is this kind of like weird Christian nationalism where we've blurred the lines between the church and the state.

And we've made ourselves out to be God's morality police rather than children who are called to introduce others to the love of our Father and invite them to be adopted into the family of God. We could please test morality police. We could deal with it. Give me 10 minutes and I could write a sermon on why we should be the morality policeman of an airport. Can you give me a couple of questions? But once we're missing the whole point. Once we become blinded by our own certainty and only religious ideology. Okay. Next. Once we become blinded by our own cultural or political ideology. Maybe you're a rejection of religion. Which would be weird that you're here today. But I'm glad. What's more likely is that you're a deconstructor of the religion that you grew up with in your childhood.

But what happens to a lot of people in that situation when you're deconstructing bad religion, bad religious ideology that you grew up with, is... What tends to happen is we swing a pendulum and we adopt a very similar looking ideology on the exact opposite end of the spectrum. And then we dig our heels in about that and last about anybody who disagrees with this thought of the ideology. A lot of people who grew up in unhealthy religious ideology just swing the pendulum from Christian nationalism to Christian liberalism. And both of these categories can be fueled by a Greek faith and confirmation bias. We do integrate with people that have agreed with our ideology and we only talk to people who agree with our ideology. And we throw stones at people who think differently than we do.

We're unwilling to just stop and ask God what He might want for us. We create a God in our own image and we call Him Jesus. And this is, there's nothing new under the sun, I'm going to point this out on America, but the Pharisees and Sadducees were doing the same thing in the first century. The Pharisees were the conservatives and were just right-wingers and the Sadducees and the liberal left-wingers and they both got together to kill Jesus. Because they created a God in their own image and called Him the Messiah. And then when the actual Messiah came, they were too hard-hearted, stubborn, and blind to see them in the right place. And I'm just wondering if the same thing happens to us, folks in the church. If the same thing happens to me, folks in the church.

Third category of people is, blinded by your own selfishness is the whole thing. Honestly, a lot of us, we just want to do something. We want to act a certain way and we want to believe a certain thing and we want to do a certain thing with our tongue, our energy, our resources, our money. And we don't really care how it impacts those around us or what God might have to say about it. We become so fixated on the pleasures that we refuse to consider our Creator's plan for our lives. And in the worst cases, we dig our heels down and we try and convince others to disobey God the same way that we're disobeying God so that we're not alone in our disobedience. So, Paul talks about Romans chapter 1. He says, "They invent ways of sinning against God.

Worse yet, they encourage others to do the same." Blinded by our own selfish desires, we proof-text a guide that allows us to do whatever it is that we want to do and we call him Jesus. If I can be really honest with you this morning, I guess I'm doing this with myself in front of you this morning, I see all three of these categories in my own life. All three ideas in all three categories where I'm like, "I really would like Jesus to be like this. Let's take this and put that on my theology thing." And then, "I really like, we're both sitting over here. I'll take this and I'll put that on my own life. I'm going to go to work to do this with my mommy and say, "There's a pastor here. I'll do that."

And I end up kind of like that. Casting God, again, in my own image. And exploring him, Jesus. This is what Saul was doing. He's digging his tears on God's theology and the resurrected Jesus throws out to him what's in Christ, and he says, "He with me." And here, I've been here. "Why? Why are you persecuting me?" And Saul responds. Verse 5, he says, "Who are you, Lord?" Saul said, "I am Jesus, the one you are persecuting me." I said, "What should I do, Lord?" "Get up and go to the master, and you will be told what you must do." The men who were traveling with him should speak those hearing and setting between knowing. Saul got up from the ground, and though his eyes were open, he saw the lesson. So he took him by the hand and led him to Damascus.

He was unable to see you for three days, and he believed when he came." So, Jesus shows up and summons Saul and his blind religious ideology, and Saul's response is two questions that I think are extremely important for us to make sure that we do not get blinded by our own ideology. Saul says, "Who are you, and what do you want me to do?" "Who are you, and what do you want me to do?" And before we give Saul too much credit for nailing the quiz, let's remember that God radically intervened and threw him off a horse with a plaster made from heaven. So, he's kind of like, "What other questions are you going to ask when I'm heaven?" So he nailed it, but God kind of like led him to the answers. Saul says, "Who are you, and what do you want me to do?"

And Saul's old test and repair that in heavenly visions or angelic encounters were not out of the realm of possibility. And when he's confronted, he wants to know who is the source. "Who are you?" And then he says, "What do you want me to do?" "Who are you, and what do you want me to do?" "May we be people who regularly ask those questions we've gotten and actually listen." So that's what happens, if we're being known as we're like, "Yeah, those questions sound great, love that, let's do that." "God, who are you, and what do you want me to do?" And then we go back to the Scriptures, and we preach text the answers that we want to be true. And we go to God in our own hands, and then we say, "That's the answer to the question of who you are, the God that I want you to be."

And remember, once we make days for God to answer that question rather than us to answer that question. Once we allow the whole text of the Scriptures in community with other believers, the Holy Spirit to create a God in His image, for His glory, and what if we'd be willing to obey Him even when it's hard, even when He calls us to lay some things down that we really want, even when He asks us to go places we really don't want to go. "Who are you, Lord, and what do you want me to do?" So, He tells Saul to go to Damascus, and there Jesus will answer Saul's question. "Who are you, and what do you want me to do?" And He'll do that for an obedient believer in verse 10. There is a disciple in Damascus named Ananias, follower of Jesus, already there,

and he's going to be there, got to have his plan all along. The Lord said to him in Damascus, and Ananias. And that is what he said, Jesus is, so he's not stopped. "Here I am, Lord. Get up and go to the street called Straight," the Lord said, "into the house of Jesus, and ask for a man from Parasus named Saul, since he is playing there. In Damascus, he has seen a man in Damascus coming in and placing his hands on him, so that he may regain his sight." Verse 13. "But, Lord," and he said, "I have heard from many people about this name, how much hunger he does to your saints and your sins." I love how Saul says, "Who are you, and what do you want me to do?" And Ananias called Jesus says, "Are you sure, Lord?

Are you sure? Are you sure this is what you want me to do?" Jesus said he has authority on Ananias, but he said authority from the priest to arrest me. The Lord said, "Go, for this man is my chosen instrument to take my man to the Gentiles, kings and Israelites. I will show him how much he must suffer from my need." Ananias went and entered the house, and placed his hand on him instead. And just expect this thing here, so that we all get what's happening. The last thing that Saul says to Jesus is, "Who are you, and what do you want me to do?" He says, "Go to Damascus and wait for the answer." Ananias comes in, and lays his hands on Saul, and gives him the answer to both of these questions. Brother Saul, "The God of our ancestors has appointed you to meddle his will,

to see the righteous one, to hear the words from his mouth, since you will be a witness for him to all people of what you have seen and heard of. And now, why are you delaying? Get up and be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on his need." Ananias goes up to answer these two questions. First question, "Who are you?" He says, "I've appointed you to know the righteous one." Who is Jesus, the righteous one? The perfect, sinless, blameless Son of God, who came to be the Messiah for all people, that would recognize that he was God in the flesh, sacrificially loving us to the point of death on the cross, that he was approved and being rose to new life, and delivering us. You are the righteous one." And then he says, "You are my appointed instrument to proclaim salvation to the Gentiles and to kings."

So, essentially, if we're going to stumble on this, give an answer just on this question. I'm going to stop. The one you've been waiting for, the one that's been processed by the Middle Testament, the one that's even preached that sermon about right before you killed him, Jesus, the Messiah, and the righteous one. And I want to point at you to step first from my need, to take my message of good news to the Gentiles and to the king. And what's incredible here is that Saul was perfectly positioned to now do this thing. Because Saul had an incredible knowledge of the Old Testament, and yet he was a Roman citizen, and now he finds himself in Damascus, which happens to be a main metropolitan area with crossroads going north, south, east, and west to the Gentiles.

So I'm saying I've positioned you and I've placed you here on purpose so that you might know that I am the righteous one and that you might be positioned to use your strengths, your skills, your abilities to go into proclaiming the message of Jesus to the Gentiles.

I did not save myself in this time. So I'm going to do a couple of things right next, right? So not only is there individual implications to this, but there's theological implications. See, in Acts chapter 1 last week, you know, talked about the offense when Jesus says, "You're going to go to Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the ends of the earth, to see Jesus' communities, to his people." And guess what they do? They go to Jerusalem. What is it? They're just preaching the gospel in Jerusalem, and God's like, "Hey, I told you Jerusalem's Judea, Samaria, to the ends of the earth. Jerusalem." This is funny. We're doing it. Holy Spirit goes up, fire, people are getting saved. It's awesome. But God uses Saul's persecution. It's the persecution of Stephen and his murdering that sends the church out by force to Judea and Samaria.

And so God's like, "Hey, if you're not going to obey me, like, you're going to obey me, but you just bloody want to do it now or later." So they go into Judea and Samaria and then he collects Saul as a chosen instrument to continue the gospel to the rest of the world. The known world through Rome and then through his letters we now read the gospel in his own body. So not only is it individual implications, but it's theological implications. Saul is uniquely positioned by a guy, a Roman citizen, incredible knowledge of the Jews who are on a crossroad city. I believe that if we would choose a snake claim to ask God those two questions in worship, I think he'd answer the question from us in a very similar way that he answered it to Saul.

Who are you? Might we let the righteous one of God accept any unrighteous ideas that we believe that are resulting in spiritual blindness? May we ask this question and when it God would show us areas of our life where we have created a God and an image and calling Jesus. May the true righteous one correct our bad ideas, our bad religious ideology, our bad cultural, political ideology, our bad selfish desires that we've precepted our way around us. May we ask that question and we're all going to go up and correct our bad ideas. Secondly, what do you want me to do just like that? So, I believe God has a unique calling on your life. You have skills and persistence and spiritual gifts and a sphere of influence that no one else in this room has.

And God has, if you are a follower of Jesus, God has appointed you to be his messenger to people all around you. Who are you? The righteous one. What do you want me to do? You have a calling for your life. You have a calling for your life. Where do you choose to obey me or where you gave your heels and you took against the judges. You have a calling for your life. You have a calling for your life. You have a calling for your life. Thank you.
