Spiritual Stations: Crusader
2023-03-27
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xhf55InwAYU

Well, thanks so much for joining us this morning. If you haven't met me yet, my name is Ryan. I'm one of the pastors here. Excited to be here. I don't know if you know this or not. First of all, how many people don't have the original podcast I want to ask you? We've got some of you guys in the room? All right. This morning is for you because it's more difficult to write a short message than a long message. So I wrote a long message and I'm just going to go through it really fast. Sound good? Okay. This morning we are talking about the Crusader. We are following up our series, Spirits and Stations. It really is kind of similar to the love language platform, but it's how we connect with God in relationship. We've talked about heart, soul, mind, and strength, which are clearly in Jesus' command to love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength.

You can put up the five days. The last two categories have been added later. They're more sociological, kind of observations of how people behave in groups. It's the Pilgrim and the Crusader. Last week we covered the Pilgrim, and the Pilgrim is all about doing what works, and some of you guys are excited about that. Lastly, we are going to cover the Crusader, and because the Crusader is all about doing stuff, be active, rather than me talking about doing stuff, we're going to have people who are doing stuff talk about what they're doing, and then invite you to do stuff with them. Does that sound like a good point? All right, so some of you, however, have talked to me after service and said, what if I'm a Pilgrim and the Crusader? Why is that happening?

And there's like a pattern of you. There's a group of you. Give me some noise if you're the Pilgrim and the Crusader in time. All right, we've got some people here. So I put a little bit of thought and a little bit of prayer into it, and ultimately, I think what's unique about you guys is you're oriented towards results. Right? Like heart people, we can sit and sing music all day long, and nothing necessarily will happen other than that. And we always feel close to God. And Pilgrims and Crusaders are like, we didn't do anything. Can we do something? Right? And so I think there is some overlap between these two groups because you guys are action-oriented. You're oriented towards results. So we're going to cover the Crusaders today. We're going to invite two Crusaders to come up and tell you what they are doing.

Invite you to come along. And then I can range with the Smiths who have them in the lobby. You can talk to them. And also just pray about what God might be doing in your heart. What action-oriented ministry might God be calling you to? So let me pray, and then we'll get after it. Father, again, thank you so much for this morning of worship. There is a reason that you command the same to encourage one another by singing and solving the same as the spirit of God. Some things happened in the room today, but this day is while we were singing. Because you command us to do it. And when we do what you command us to do, you fill out. So I thank you for that. I pray that you continue to fill out Holy Spirit, speak to each one of us how we need to do it.

So do you so much for it? Amen. Ready, Bibles? Go ahead and open up the New and Minor. We're going to read, like, four verses in a little bit. New and Minor, Chapter 1. And while you're turning there, I'm going to describe for you a scenario in which you probably all find yourselves in at one point in time or another. Imagine with me that you had a free Saturday. It was the first free Saturday you've had in months. And because it's the first free Saturday that you have had in months, your house is an absolute rest. Anybody can picture this scenario with me. All right. We've all been there. And what happens, I'm convinced of this. I've lived on and I've said there's different groups of people that are going to handle this differently. The first group of people, and feel free to give me a whoop if this is you.

You are going to totally ignore the mess, and you are going to enjoy your free Saturday. And you'll come back to me next later. You're going to do something fun, relaxing, and family time, whatever. There's another group of you. You're going to do a lot of counseling will be available after your service. Another group of you, you'll do a quick tidy, right? You'll sleep real quick. You'll push things under the bed. You'll make it look semi-free. And then you'll spend the rest of your day doing some fun, exciting things. Anybody else? That's me. That's me. I'm the quick tidy and then go thing. Another thing is you're going to commit to cleaning the house by the end of the day, but you're going to take breaks, right? You're going to do one task, take a break.

One task, take a break. Some of you guys? All right. And then the last group, and this is the group that calls conflict for a lot of us. This is the group that says, no one is doing anything until this house is spotless. Yeah, we got some of you in the room. Boo and yays all around. I use this common and hopefully helpful illustration because I think it illustrates the type of people that find themselves in this crusader category. Crusaders are individuals who become burdened for a particular spiritual problem, and they are unable to move on from that belief. Something is wrong. Something is breaking, and it has to be fixed. We can't do anything else until we fix this problem. They become passionate about creating solutions to fix the problem. They invite others to join with them.

Nobody's leaving this room until we fix this problem. They cannot see themselves doing anything other than being a part of the solution to whatever the problem is that they are most burdened for. This is the way of the crusader. I would summarize it this way. I would say that the crusader is an action-oriented follower of Jesus with a singular focus. Action-oriented follower of Jesus with a singular focus. You become burdened on one specific ministry. You cannot move on until something gets done. I think Nehemiah really is the clearest example we have in Scripture of an old crusader. The nation of Israel was taken into captivity by the Babylonians, but God had promised that they would be restored to their place, that the nation would come back to the city of Jerusalem, and that there would be a nation again.

The return had begun, and Nehemiah's brothers come back from Jerusalem to visit him, and he asked them how it's going. How is this prophesied return of our people to our nation coming? This is important because in the Old Testament theology, Nehemiah would have thought that Jerusalem, the capital city of Israel, it had to be restored to what it used to be like because that's how God was going to bring salvation to all of the world. It was through the temple in Jerusalem. This is really important to Old Testament theology. So Nehemiah is wondering, how is the progress coming along? What is God doing in the city of Jerusalem? And then in verse 2, he asked his brothers, how are things going in Jerusalem? They said to me, things are not going well for those who are turning to the province of Judah.

They are in great trouble and disgrace. The wall of Jerusalem has been torn down, and the gates have been destroyed by fire. Nehemiah said, when I heard this, I sat down, and I wept. In fact, for days, I mourned, and I fasted, and I prayed, the died of heaven.

You know, my head becomes aware of a spiritual problem. Something is wrong. The city of Jerusalem is in symbols, and someone has to do something to me about it. He can't get over it. He sits, and he prays, and he's fast, and he tries to go back to work. He tries to go back to doing the thing that he was doing before. And even when I had a priest who could give, he was actually the cupbearer to the king, which just means he gets to drink the really things he wanted for free, and actually he gets paid to drink the really things he wanted. And the only problem is, you know, he could die. But usually, it's fine. It's a good day at work, and it's not a good day at work. And so Nehemiah goes back to work.

He tries to get the city of Jerusalem off of his mind, but he can't. Chapter 2 says, earlier in the following spring, so time has passed, and he still can't get over this problem. In the month of the East, I'm during the 20th year of King Arbazerxes reign. I was serving the king, he's won. I have never before appeared sad in his presence. Oh, look at him. You don't want to be looking sick when he gives the king his wine. So the king asked me, why are you looking so sad? You don't look sick. You must be deeply troubled. Nehemiah was terrified, but I replied, long live the king. How can you not be sad, for the city where my ancestors are buried is in ruins, and the gates have been destroyed by somebody. I'm burdened.

There's a spiritual problem. I can't do anything else until someone does something about this burden. They can't ask, well, how can I help you? This is bold. I became from Nehemiah with a prayer. He's so nervous. He's going to pray. Anybody have a shotgun prayer like that where you're like, I've got nothing in this, God. Please tell me, I've got to do this thing. I'm doing this thing. So this is Nehemiah. He prays. And he says, if it pleases the king, and he will please with me, send me to Judah to rebuild the city where my ancestors are buried. So Nehemiah is burdened with a spiritual problem. He can't do anything until he solves this problem. And Pedro Stiles, in his pastor, says it this way. When he's summarizing this chapter in Nehemiah, he says that the summary of it would say this.

If someone has to do something about it, it might as well be me. The Savior's in the room said, and he means somebody has to fix this problem, it might as well be me. Nehemiah becomes aware of the spiritual problem. Things are not as it should be as useful, and something has to be done. It becomes action-oriented, singular purpose. And the same perspective still exists in the church today. It's a rare category, probably is the least detailed group of people. That these people, they become aware of the spiritual problem in their city, in their country, in the world. And they become so burdened about that problem, they can't imagine doing anything else until the problem is addressed. No one's leaving the house. It's extreme. We've got to do something about this. This is the way of the crusaders.

So, as I wrap up my time this morning, I want to share a few strengths and a few weaknesses of crusaders in the American church from my perspective. And then I'm going to invite a few crusaders up to share about some specific spiritual problems that they are passionate about. First thing, crusaders, don't get stuff done. Right? You just get stuff done. Less talking, more doing. And for it, I'm going to be pastor also, this is done. Can we be honest, but the American church is sometimes good at, like, just pretending to be church, but that has to be in the same way that comes to it. Like, we're really good at coming together and sitting down and singing songs and reading Scripture. But then when we actually leave the place, we're supposed to go out into the world and make disciples of our nation.

That part... Okay. So, crusaders, y'all get stuff done. Right? You're like, hey, what are we doing sitting on this thing in silence when there are people outside these walls with broken eyes that need a hope and healing and healing? Secondly, crusaders, you give voice to the voiceless. From my perspective, most of the time, the crusaders tend to, I mean, drift towards the core, the power, and some of the people. No one else is standing up to these groups of people. No one else is speaking up. No one else is doing anything. I would say it this way. Crusaders are often the ones doing the ministry that isn't sexy. Because we like to do the things that we can post on Instagram about, right? We like to... See, these are not my notes. We like to do the things that are low-hanging fruit that you can get a lot of credit for without a lot of action.

And the crusaders say, no, there's this group of people that need our blood, our sweat, and our tears, and we probably aren't going to give any credit for it, but we have to do it in a way. Crusaders, you give voice to the voiceless. Crusaders, you motivate others to action. It's inspiring for us to see you go full speed ahead, trying to conquer the problem that exists in the church.

Lastly, you act as a prophetic voice for the complacent. You call us out of complacent food and need to action. Thank you. We need that. This is an important voice in the church. So, Crusaders, you're often polarizing figures. Going back to nobody's leaving this room until I read this tree. Nobody likes that. I'm not saying you're not important. I'm just saying everybody else is like, can we take a break for a second? Can we do one other thing other than, like, tree? No. Okay. So, you often feel that if somebody isn't as passionate as you are, they must be lukewarm, at best, not staged at work. And I would just ask you to have a more benevolent perspective, to meet people where they're at, and to understand that they might be passionate about things that you're not passionate about.

Second, partners and program, that's good. Second, Crusaders, do you guys easily burn out? You're so passionate about fixing the problem that you didn't take time to rest. And I don't know if you know this, but resting is one of the 10 key moments. So, let's think about this. Let's be, let's have a balance perspective. Easy to learn. And lastly, you can easily end up having your identity rooted in what you're doing for God, rather than what God has already done. So, this is the temptation for all of us. Anytime we go out and we do things and we see God at work, it's easy for us to say, wow, God must really need means for his people. God doesn't need you. God wants you. He invites you to participate around the style of time. So, make sure as you're crusading that your identity is rooted in who Jesus is and what he is going to do.

So, because I love my Crusaders, rather than me spending the next 30 minutes theorizing about what crusading might look like, I'm going to invite some friends who are crusading. These are three individual ministries that we're connected to at our church. The first is Jamie Justin. He's going to talk about being a welcoming church, having hospitality at church. I don't know if you guys know this, but, like, we've grown by, like, 70 people since we moved on average every Sunday. And we're not doing anything to make people still work at all. Like, we're, like, it's, like, almost death tape and bandage and people are, like, is church happening here? I don't know. So, who's going to talk to you about that? But we have, like, 180 apartments being built within walking distance to my church. Talk about a mission field coming to us.

God is bringing people to us. Let's welcome them and invite them in. Ms. Dell. You guys don't need much, but Mr. Huck, he is passionate about our kids and the kids' next door, the kids' club. We're going to hear about opportunities for us to serve our community through the kids' next door. And lastly, we're going to have a missionary that we support called Blazing Heart Branch. They attack us, that's drastically in allowing this thing. And we're really excited about what, how we've partnered with them in the past and how we claim to increase that partnership moving forward. And so we're all going to share briefly that they're going to have finance in our lobby at Russian to talk about how you might partner with one of those ministries. And if none of those ministries are still in your heart, do something.

Pray that God would throw up some passing in your heart, some burden in your heart. He said it is, I want to validate and encourage your passing and obedience. Never lose your burden for ministering from life and mercy. I want to exhort you not to root your identity and your actions to your results. God loves you. He wants to feed you. The rest of us, I'd encourage you to personally, consider how you might partner with the staters in helping write, physical or spiritual learning, whether it's one of our guest speakers or somebody else. And if you're in here and you're not a Christian, when are you believing the person, you will be blown away by what God will do in your heart, and you still don't. So I'm going to go up to you.

I mean, it's kind of hard to walk up out of the blank description of what you say to them. I've heard them as something to live up to, I guess. Well, when Matt and Ryan in the home asked me to help rebuild the hospitality team and to really focus on that, I have to tell you, it was like an instant yes for me. In fact, it was one of those moments where then I walked away. I was like, oh my goodness, what did I just do? And the funny thing about it is we weren't real sure what that was going to actually look like, but I did know something was needed to be done. Now, part of the reason I gave such a quick yes is because not only you don't already understand how important it is to be a welcoming church,

how important it is to greet people with a love of press, I know this, but it's also part of the story. So, you know, it's kind of cool because writing that, you have no idea about the story. You know, I share this with them, I'm going to share it with you now. So, this goes all the way back to 2000. I had been a youth pastor for seven years and then I had just been to Winchester and I was starting the process, we were taking a break from ministry in the poor little kids, and that kind of really explains it right now. But we were taking a break from ministry and I started the process of church something. Now, I have to say, as a church father, I was probably a professional. I was also being a minister, being a pastor.

And not only professional, I was probably not the easiest customer to deal, you know, with churches. So, that had been going on, my church family had been going on for almost a year. In fact, I even had a strategy. I would go out, I was a scouting. I would go out, I would scout a church. I would go do that. And if they, you know, passed the test, if they were doing it, then I would do it in my new case. So, here's where the story gets kind of interesting. So, I heard, here's this promotion on the radio for Grace Community Church. This is, again, all the way back to 2001. And I decided where I was from was pulled. And the two things I was kind of running out of churches. So, I thought, now I'm going to go check it out.

By the way, one of my tests, you know, for going, you can see how this all comes. And it's pretty simple. When I walk up to the door, when I walk through the door, when I get inside, and send anybody there, and say, hello. You would be shocked at how many churches didn't pass that course test. And usually, when that didn't happen, well, now I was disappointed, right? So, now, everything about the church, I'm looking at, and I was like, yeah, well, the word still was bad, too. So, my personal thing was, and then these cues, oh, for the love of God, those things killed me. I mean, that's not a real thing. And so, it all started this very negative thing, which led to quite a long time, you know, having a church. Well, I go to Grace.

And I'll never forget, because I'm walking up to the school, as John did, from the United Nations. I'm walking up to the school. There's this job in there. And I remember this so crazy. It was as if he'd already locked down to me. And I remember thinking, and he's kind of a cooler dude, but I'm walking up, and I'm like, well, this is interesting. And it was very interesting. There's a few people in here that might remember Stanley from each of those years. That was his, that was his thing. He was a believer. And he walks up, and he's kind of making a few words. He's working for me. And he just sort of looks at me and says, do you hear him? Yeah. And he's like, good. How are you going to the gym?

Coffee? I was like, yeah, coffee. So he goes over, and he shows me where the coffee is, and I was expecting to, you know, he just scooted out of the way, and he's like, how do you like it? And he makes my coffee. So then, he abandoned his post, and he shows me all around the trip. Pretty cool. And so I'm going to get home, and I'm like, well, we're going to check this out. So we come back, and guess what? Stanley remembers my mother. Not only that, he's got a cup of coffee waiting for me in a mug, and he says, keep the mug. It made an enticing of a week. Well, all of a sudden, we like how we think about the church. I think maybe that's how God works sometimes. And then long story short, we ended up serving there, getting very involved in the different kinds of ministry.

We ended up serving on the board. We ended up serving in about 30 days for 70 years, and we directed a pastor to write through this week. So maybe all that happened because of a guy who was serving, and he gave me a cup of coffee. I don't know. It was pretty cool. It made a huge impression. So when we started talking about the need here to rebuild the hospitality team, I was like, oh, my goodness. Are you kidding? That's part of my story. So after almost 20 years of ministry, serving in those churches, I've seen a lot of teenagers. And so I understood how important it is to be the kind of church that when people walk up, right from the beginning, they know that they are welcomed. Right from the beginning, they know that this is a place for them to be.

If I were to think back at all the things I learned about hospitality ministries, and reading teams, and pecking up teams, and ushers, and cafes, and all those things, And if I was to boil it all down to one thing, I think I would say this. You can never, ever underestimate what God can do with just a smile, just a warm welcome in a handshake. You see, you never know what people are carrying with them when they come up to the church. Some people come with incredible burdens. So some, this is like their last self. Other people come because they sense that maybe God is doing something here. So we believe that God is always at work in people's lives when they are coming. So think about the opportunity that creates for us. We get to be a part of what God is doing. Simply bowing, singing good morning, smiling, welcoming somebody because of the love of Christ.

So that's kind of what I'm crusading for, is rebuilding this team. In two weeks, we have a thing happening, maybe some of you know, Easter. And I'm going to tell you, we really want to do our dead-level best at welcoming people, especially for Easter. Now, there's a passage I want to share with you real quick because, I mean, I think these Scriptures are just amazing how they can motivate us and how they can just, I mean, encourage us to do certain things. So check this out. This is in Hebrews, chapter 13, verses 1 and 2. Let this sink in. There's some translations that say, has shown hospitality to angels unaware. I love that. Could that happen here? Would God do that? Because this is so important. Well, all the mystics are like, yes! Some other people might be, I don't know, but something's great.

I'll tell you what, I believe it absolutely can happen. It probably does happen. And it's a wonderful motivator. If people are walking up to the door, just have that in your back of your mind and be praying for God and trusting that God doesn't work and something amazing could happen this day. So how does that happen? Just the way God always seems to work, right? He works through us. So if there's nobody waiting, if there's nobody in the parking lot waiting, if there's nobody doing these things for the right reasons, guess what? I don't know how else to say it, but I think it just doesn't happen. So that's the motivator. And so what I want to do is invite you to consider jumping into this new hospitality team. We're going to call it First Impressions, because that's what we want to do.

When people come, we want them to have an incredible First Impressions, not just the church, but even just the people. But I believe it reflects on who Christ is, and they kind of people who are filled with his love, and they get a sense that God has that world today. That's what we want to do. So if you might be interested in that, we're going to have a table in the lobby, and even better, if you've got some flexibility, if you've got some time, we're going to do a luncheon line where we kind of unpack these different areas, these different communities. And I want to invite you to come. We've got plenty of food and drinks and chips and all that. We won't stay too long. We're going to keep up and do a lot more.

But if you've got some flexibility, can join us if you want to learn more about it, that would be fantastic. Okay, let me do just one last thing. Let me pray for you, and then I'm going to hand it over in the show. Let me pray for you. So, Father God, I just believe that there are people here today, and in this moment, I'm thinking about what it might be like to serve the big, bleeding people, for what happened to welcome people. So, Father God, do you know who they are? I pray that you, and I pray that you, which was given the boldness, would prompt them by your Holy Spirit to take these steps today, to sign up, to get involved. And, Father, I pray for them that you would just pour out your blessings on them when they're faithfully serving you.

And, Lord, to your glory, we pray for people who will come in the very first experience of church is to be blown away by people who serve the blood, by people who are determined and welcoming and radiant for you. And, Lord, to have made that become the reality. And, Lord, we know that that's your heart. We know it's going to happen. So, we thank you, Lord God. And, Lord, we pray all of this in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you. Oh, it was good. And, Lord, we pray all of this in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you. And, Lord, we pray all of this in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you. And, Lord, we pray all of this in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you.

And, Lord, we pray all of this in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus. And, Lord, we pray all of this in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus.

We know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus and we know it's going to be the most proud of you in Jesus. So, my name is for somebody so if I haven't had an opportunity to meet you and have the best job here, you can get to work with your kids. Every Sunday, sometimes you're out there and you can never let it, but to be honest, when Pastor Ryan asked me to talk during the week of Crusader, I certainly didn't consider myself a Crusader in a twisted program.

But, um, I didn't even see what I had to say until I started to like break down why I wanted to do what I wanted to do and I said, clearly, that just like me and I know the way you, you know, you can solve this in whole and try to do something about it. Um, when I was growing up, I had an amazing church. I loved my youth pastor. They were teaching my youth pastor. They were teaching my youth pastor. They were what that means primary high school and middle school and put me from going to the parties to be at this awesome event going on and my friends stuck with me. That's where I found Jesus, which is where I fell in love with his God and I couldn't wait for my kids to have that.

I knew that they would, but when my oldest started getting older older, they just couldn't find a place that she wanted to go to. We, we tried lots of churches and I'm not sitting up and running out of the churches and amazing children in the streets. There are. I learned a lot from other children in the street. Maybe it was in this neighborhood, in this town. But my kids' kids didn't find one to collect. So rather than looking forward to getting up on Sunday morning, they would cry, they wouldn't want to get out of the car, they wouldn't. We knew, we would spend the class and I'm here, but we'd call it back and we'd be good and we'd be good and we'd be good and try. So we honestly, of course, didn't really want to go to church anymore because that's what would happen.

And so when I was sitting at church one Sunday and I got an announcer looking for a children's leader, I was like, it was like God said, okay, if you think you can provide an environment that your kids will want to go to, why don't you? Okay, this is your opportunity. And so it dropped in my lap. And what started as doing something so that my kids loved it and fell in love with Jesus quickly became a passion that I wanted every kid that stepped foot in this church to fall in love with Jesus. And by doing that, love, they want to go to church. They love the church. Because here's the reality. Being a kid is crazy hard. How many of you remember what it was like to be a kid? How many of you can think of a saying or a phrase or even a person who would hurt you at a time?

It's one phrase, one word that they said, or one person. I always give an example. I'm not going to go here because this is so nice, but I remember the girls first and last name. And I, oh, she just made middle school miserable. How is what our kids are dealing with today? I'm guessing you didn't walk in this morning and somebody said, I hate your shirt, you look stupid, and I think you're fine. That's what happens to our kids on a daily basis. My sister's a teacher. I was talking to her about this last night and she said, one of our students said, Mrs. Davis, you know that thing that you have in the back of your throat that keeps you from saying the things you shouldn't say? I don't think I'm healthy. Our kids are dealing with other kids that don't have that thing in the back of their throat that makes them not say what they shouldn't say.

But the words pack just as deep because here you and I are, 20, 30, maybe more years, and we still remember what that kid said. Because it sticks with us. I want our kids to have a place that they feel safe, love, calm, and awesome way. So they're struggling with something. They're struggling with words that were said that hurt them. They know they can come here, and somebody will help them. When I was thinking of a Scripture to talk about this morning, I'm going to probably think of what he said. Jesus said, "Let the Lord be frozen, come to my heaven." It's the verse in John 16:33. It says, "We have told you these things, but in me you will have peace. In this world you won't have trouble, but take heart, and I'm going to work when you won't."

Jesus is talking to his disciples. He has just spent three years in his pregnancy. He's about to go to the cross. He actually just told them before this, "You're probably going to die because people will think you're preaching that I'm inside, and they're going to think I'm not inside." So he says that they're a little focused on me. I'm not letting me know. But he's saying, "You guys know me. In this world it's going to be hard, but you can find peace in me." So my question to you is, "How can our children find peace in a God that they do not want?" You know, you need peace. This world is not going to bring things into your happiness. They're stretching for all the right things, often in all the wrong places. In this building, we can draw out to them to the right thing in the right place.

That's why I want to be found in one red shirt, taking back to the place that feels like going to the people I came to turn on. I want this church to be the place that they came to turn on. The most recent statistics say, "The second leading cause of pain for children ages 10 to 18 is 35." This is not a small thing. Sometimes in your life you forget what they're facing, but that bully that says those mean things to them, they have to keep going back to school and face that bully every single day. Because that's the school that they're in. They can't, like you and I, if you have a co-worker that's awful, we avoid them. We can't avoid them if the future fits them right next to you. These kids need a place where they feel loved and protected.

Jesus is talking to the disciples again in Matthew 9:36 and he says, "I'm not going to try to act in confession on them because they're harassed and hopeless. They can't seek without a second." We don't want our kids to be healed without a second. They have to get to know Jesus like the disciples did to find out peace. And I saw a quote where it says, "The body of Christ needs to build a fortress of protection around the weaker believers so that they're in their faith." And God isn't destroyed by the actions of the believers. Our job, my passion, is to build a fort of protection around our kids so that they can't be destroyed. And we know that no matter what that kid says, that's not who they are. They are who they are in faith.

And no matter what they're going through, they can find peace because God is with them. The last picture that I want to give you is kind of my call to all of you and it's a very popular one. How then can they call on the one they have not believed in? And how can they believe in the one for whom they have not heard? And how can they fear without somebody preaching to them? And how can anyone preach unless they are sung as it is written? How beautiful are the feet of those who bring them to you? So my question to you is if you feel God tumbling in your heart. We have incredible opportunities to grow. We've already grown. We're having Sundays between 50 and 75 kids. But this last Thursday, and many of you know we were supposed to have an Easter is not yesterday.

Well, of course I planned it two months ago. And every day we were wearing clothes from Saturdays. It says it's going to rain. It's going to rain. It's going to rain. It's going to rain. So on Monday, we made the decision to move it to Thursdays. Thursday was September 75 and Sunday. That was not meant to me. Because what happened was, even though we had invited the kids at the kids' home, many of them, we've done that before. We've invited them to get things we've met or not even heard of. And Thursday, the downtown scale teams, that's where we're looking for the boys for us. And the kids are all standing at the fence from the kids' club. I have a picture around. This is a workshop in the gym. But, um, they're all standing at the fence.

And we're like, whoa, why do I come? And I'm like, you're invited. If you have invitations, you've got to come. So they're poor parents when they came to pick them up. They're all begging them to come. We had 10 to 15 families from the kids' club come. And they wouldn't have come if it was on Sunday because they wouldn't have seen it. Yet God brought them here. We've had such incredible conversations with these parents and these kids. They were like, that's a church? This young girl said, well, I need to come in here because I need Jesus. We all need Jesus. And I was like, yes, I need you to come in. You know, it was the coolest thing. That is an opportunity for us. But if we don't have enough volunteers, if we don't have enough volunteers,

then these kids are going to fall through the cracks. And the whole lot of things happen. Because I want this to be the place that they can come to and be heard and seen and find out which is this. The apartment context is being built. I mean, the growth that we take care of is huge. But, kids need to know that they aren't screaming. And it can't just be me as much as I would love the spirit to be. And I could meet everyone that was new teaching men. It can't do that. So, meet you. Since you've got a calling or a passing. Or even if you were sort of like kids. They will grow on you. I promise. I was terrified. They are awesome. You will fall in love with them. We have needs always from nursery to elementary.

Elementary. Elementary. My biggest need to celebrate is. I can do the need to do it. But they need somebody that knows them and is so comfortable. Talk to teachers. I did this morning. I'm going to talk with you outside for a little bit. I couldn't. I had 400 things. And I said, ask the church. It's ask the church. I want to be able to be like. Who's a kind of good mother? Go talk to them now. Let's find out how we can help you. So, that's my spiel. I will also be outside of the table. If you feel your pride, your heart, in any of those age groups. You could use your help in all of these groups. And I promise you, you will go from being a little bit more than some of it.

To looking forward to coming to churches and more than they are being. Because they are an incredible group of faith. Thank you guys. We are waiting for you. To introduce something that helps me. To be safe. And I'm busy. Here's what I'm asking. I'm talking about. How does the language of the most to fight human trafficking and destroy survival? They're offering a free summer treatment for kids to help provide them with tools to stay safe. Cornelia Nicholson has details. Each year, human trafficking forces many women and children into a world of darkness. David Haggard and his wife, Joelle, studied Blazingham Branch in 2017. With a purpose to help trafficking survivors heal and weaken the sex trade through the power of Christ. Haggard says they do this in several ways. One is through the residential program where we have survivors that will come to the ranch for 18 to 24 months.

And they will get life skill attainment, counseling, will use horses, other healing process. Haggard says the other part of their mission is prevention. Since the average age of girls who are abducted in children to human trafficking is 13 years old. If we can get information and analyze into the hands of kids that are aged 8 to 13, and that we believe that they'll be a lot less susceptible to the lives of the traffickers. Which is why they begin Camp Run Free, a no-cost, five-day summer camp experience where they utilize horses, Bible-based lessons, and inside trafficking activities. With an increase in traffickers reaching codes online, Haggard says it's important to start educating children on their tactics. People often think when they think of community trafficking, they might think of, "Oh, there's a third world problem that's happening somewhere else."

In reality, there are hundreds of thousands of victims in the United States that are being trafficked or trying to be interested. Haggard says they'll be holding another camp next week at the Wade County Fairgrounds and help kids leave knowing they matter. I think kids are really seeing that being that there's someone that cares about them and that they do have value and weight. And it's, you know, that someone would think it's your fun experience and learning things at the same time. So, I hadn't seen that video before. I mean, he doesn't seem to go hard times when I'm telling you, but he didn't know he was being recorded for the news program. So, I certainly need to be a little more lively in person. So, I get the pleasure of introducing David and Jeremy Andrew.

I mean, the people that are here and here. So, to me and a host of you, I can't remember what you said. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.

I was going to be able to do this. And when I was coming, he said, and I do have to say, they said, "I love you. You know, you're listening." And I thought she was going to be coming, but he hasn't gotten the most part of me just thinking my words. He said, "It seems like they posted them." And, yeah, I was like, "I didn't do anything that I would like to say, and talk, and mistake, and something." But, it isn't that I got the words out that I wanted to say, "You're listening to everyone who's listening." So, what I think I want to hear a little bit is about us as a whole world, and there is going to give more of it. What is actually our main ministry, which is hoping to be, which I would tend to sell program items, which we do all in that case.

I mean, with, I mean, life and history. We must kind of figure out a place that we're on the list in my practice. But, I did want to, you know, talk a little bit about our kids' births, or firsts, that really are kind of a part of why they do what we do to you. And, I believe that it really stems from the fact that we have a special way. But, I mean, now I can tell you this, I mean, before that, his role, for us, and he's saying that in a similar way, literally, I do this. He's got him to pass some things. For we have a father who, through our Scripture, from the very beginnings of Genesis, all of them through Revelation, he's lived by a blessing, a blessing, and a blessing, and then his heart is for those that are hurting.

Psalm 146, verse 7, verse 7, says, "He works justice for those who are pressed alive to the world. He buys food for those who are hungry. He frees for those who are imprisoned. He makes food for all his flesh. He makes food for those who respect everything that he can. He cherishes his love to do what he's done." That is the kind of God that we serve. You serve a God who has poured out his love toward us. And he's simply calling us to step in what I know for you, and then to do what he's doing in the world. I mean, if we can be ready to do that, and to be that his preference. I don't consider myself a Christian. I just felt like I heard God's word, and he was saying we needed to do something,

and so we started to say, "I'm going to do nothing." And so we started to track it into this, and I said, "I'm going to do nothing." And so I said, "I'm going to do nothing." But the only branch I mentioned, and what is wrong for you to find the table, is to reform your notes to fill us together as a human health group, and to weaken the safety of the power of Christ. And there's a few ways that you do them. One is through to a conference. And that's really kind of hard to have that really. One of us, one of us, one of us, one of us, one of us. The core percentage is reducing the efforts of human health group. The average age of a girl that is trafficked in the United States for the age is 13 years old.

That is unaffectable. And we still might not be able to also be used to be perpetuated by the conference. And so the government can't run free every summer, and that allows us to get information in those areas of kids, to help them realize that they're going to need, that they're going to need, that they're going to want them, that they're going to need, that they're going to need, and that they're going to need to work, so that they're going to need that information. They're going to need something, that they're going to need, that they're going to need, that they're going to need, that they're going to need, that they're going to need, that they're going to need, that they're going to need. And then the other element also of what is called binding as hope.

And that is a demand and mixing of them. So the idea is, if both and then say using or sort of exploiting others, who is either pornography or philosophy or any such, is that if they realize that what they're doing is harming other people, and then realize that the purpose that they have for them is to uplift, to encourage, and to be a support to them, the value of them is that we can spark human trafficking from the very bottom, when you think about what they have for them is that they're going to need, or what they're going to need, or what they're going to need. or what they're going to need. Well, I do it. I don't consider one size, I mean, because they really want to be done. I don't think it's, you know, God said,

"Hey, I mean, you don't need to do it. You just need someone who's doing it. You want to take care." And I would not like doing it. And I would not like doing it anymore. I would not like doing it. I would not like doing it. Why not do that? Why not do that? Why not do that? But here I did. And I could say that there is an idea that we've been doing by the number one people who have to see me for one, do you really do something else? My job is, because I believe that I'm really very single directly, and so I'm taking stuff, I'm hopping these prices, I'm giving all of those things, working with life, and who's going to be really nice. It's very fun. More than that. It's a lot of fun.

David has a training job, actually, so I've got to tell people what to do. It's really interesting. Just kidding. Anyway, so the women I work with are some of the most wounded, but also nice to believe in people. You will ever know strength in this kind of survival. I mean, please? Yeah. Okay. Let me start on your thing. And let's stop that for a second. Before that first, I'm getting the idea of the audience. Okay. Okay. Okay.

So that's definitely a bit of a real thing. But some of them picked up by an older gentleman who said, "We're a few people. And then I'm getting the idea of the future." And then I'm getting the idea of the future. And then I'm getting the idea of the future. And then I'm getting the idea of the future.

And I'm getting the idea of the future. And then I'm getting the idea of the future. And then I'm getting the idea of the future. And then I'm getting the idea of the future.

When that list gets full turned over. And you can write the contact information on it. The other list is if you want information about the trip that we have coming up. Or even future trips. I will keep you in the loop of when those are working as they find. So, thank you. Is that the other way?

So, as we conclude. And I think that last one is a helpful tie back to my opening of the first one. The story is dirty. There's a lot of skinning and darkness and mess that Jesus wants to use of. That it's done. When Jesus taught his disciples to pray, he said, "God, may your kingdom come and your will be done on the earth as it is in heaven." There's a lot of God's will that he's not yet done on this earth. And he's taught us to come in on this time to do that. So, be in prayer. Just a few of those heavy messages where you might be sitting and studying guilt. or struggling. I'm not doing enough. Just remember that God is the one that produces his fruit. We are the ones that are part of the one inside of him.

And there is no condemnation for those of our students and people. So, let me send you out with this blessing. Now, to him, he is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine. According to his power that is at work within us. To him, he be the glory in the truth. Jesus, for our God's in the name of Jesus. For our God's in the name of Jesus. Amen. Go in peace, kids. We love you.
