We Are the Church: Koinonia
2023-07-24
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oa4R8VnYH7g

Thank you. Well, good morning. Good to see you all here. The next four weeks, we're going to be covering a series on a mission, vision, and four practices. And the intention has been to do it in that order, mission, vision, and four practices. But Ryan is sick, so he's stuck with me. And what I was going to present him in four weeks, we're doing today. So we're going to talk about one of our four practices. He told me, we were at Blazing Hope, and he called me on the way back yesterday morning and said, How do you see him? So here we are. I'd like to remind you that Matt has been taking his three, four sermons over the last four weeks. They walked us through our covenant, our membership covenant. And it broke out four major components of that, the word, the salvation, the local church.

And then last week, mission, right? And we actually had someone up on stage, the Kumar from Rajamundri. They're on the east side of India, where they have a large ministry in that city and a branded rural area. We're able to take part of this. It's part of our outermost parts of this ministry. Our GDM scenario is Blazing Hope Ranch. For those who, I think, it was covered a little bit. Blazing Hope is a residential facility that allows women who are trying to extract themselves from sexual trafficking to have a place of respite, hide away for a while, get life training, therapy. They use X-1 therapy today. And it's a functioning forced ranch that doesn't produce anything except a place of refuge for these ladies that are trying to get their lives done. And we contribute to it.

So a group of 19 of us, we went to Blazing Hope Ranch. And our part, this time, was to help with the facilities. And we put ribs on their barns. We stripped the guts out of an old bathhouse. Shot vents rewired the whole thing for electricity. Some guys put ribs on it. Tyler was able to reflect on it for a while. We redid the concrete. And that was one of the projects we did. So that it can now be a functioning exercise during the city's ways. A big of conversion. We did 55, where's mine, 55 projects between the 19 of us. Some of them were as small as paintings and trim. Some of them were as large as building new horses, you know. Or actually, we did build our shade for the ladies as well.

It wasn't just for horses to get showed. So it was a time when our effort, the ones who were able to volunteer and go, and all the finances of this congregation, we bought the materials and were able to bless these ladies, putting our belief in the mission of Christ, the love for our neighbor, in action to save these people, right? So that is what we call practice, right? That of our core practices, our beliefs we put into action to achieve our purpose in Christ. Your belief in action is your practice. It's not practices. That's what practice is, our practice. When we hear the word practice in America, we have coaches in our past who yelled at us to practice harder, right? And we have piano teachers that said, practice one time a day for the rest of your lives,

and someday you'll be good at it, right? That's not what we mean when we say practice, right? Practice is putting belief into action. We're putting it into practice. It's a practice. And you practice. When you practice until your person's with piano teachers, he says, someday you might get it right, right? Your church said, no, you have no idea if he's going in and you stay on the bench, right? You're not perfect yet. Christ tells us in Matthew 5, 48, being perfect as my Father in heaven is perfect. Is anyone self-daunted by that? All right, okay, perfect in the theological and the grammatical sense is achieving the purpose of your creation, right? You're fulfilled in your purpose. You're not without flaw. You've achieved what you're created for. You implement your practice until you're perfected, right? Practice makes you perfect in the scriptural sense.

And we put our core practices in place, our faith into action until we have fulfilled our purpose here in the body of Christ is overflowing to the rest of the world. That's why we have core practices, right? Practice making you perfect is, in fact, the theme of Acts, right? The actual title of Acts is in practice to an apostle, in the practice of the apostles. So when it says Acts, that doesn't mean the book of Acts, it doesn't mean the things they did, what actions they did. It's their practices. It's their beliefs. They put in the action so that the church was founded, right? Their core practices, how this church was built on earth, right? That's what the book of Acts is about. And our core practices here, they define us as a group, which we do together until we

give the habitually inculcated within us to build the character of Christ into this body of Christ. Our, I'm going to name them. Are you ready? Does anybody here know them already? No, this is exciting. All right, here we go. So, we unite for the sake of the gospel, for the gospel things, which we did, with raising hope. The reason we re-prioritized our time and united was to put the gospel in action, not practice, right? We rely on the living and written word of God. We wouldn't have gone if we hadn't thought that, you know, the gospel commanders do that and we wanted to have a part in helping these ladies come in our eyes right now. We prioritize real relationship, which we're going to talk about today. The small, we all slept in a church fellowship hall.

Together, someone might have snored. I know that that style is stuck into a tree. And these small offenses against one of these, you know, we put those aside for the larger purpose of the mission, right? When you people gave to the church so we could provide the resources and the materials to do that, right? The ones who went, we took vacation time, you know? Because we prioritize the relationships that we have together to stay united above our personal preferences so that we can make the mission happen, right? In a small way that happened to be raising hope this last week. The fourth one is we cultivate our spiritual gifts for certain others. Mike spent the whole week saying, you know, I think you're good at this. Why don't you really use that gift over there, right?

Trying to find what we have to enable one another to put our belief into practice, right? That's what we're about. Building up the saints for the work of ministry. Now, we, in like the board meeting, when I heard the pastors talking about it, we were struggling for the right word to express to the body of Christ here what membership means, right? We said, membership sounds like a pension club. And I said that a few weeks ago. And that's not what we're talking about here, right? We said partnership. The partnership sounds like we're, you know, sharing CEO duties. And that's not what we're talking about here, right? Is it membership? Is it a partnership? Is it a culminate? Is it a commitment? We were struggling to get the exact same word to convey it. The early brethren, who were German, everything sounds more extremely German, they called it which is, oh, I got enough. Do anyone here actually speak German? Okay, then I pronounced that perfectly.

The, but that means impartial yielded community, right? That was what they were about. Impartial from James 2, right? You're the rich, no poor. They were hoping we were all yielding in the same month, big in the same place, right? Didn't matter your education, your role, your wealth. Impartial. Yielding in the sense of Romans 6, 13 to 19. There's a time in your life of when you want to yield to sin. You have a constant impulse to give in and do the right thing, right? And there's a time in your life when Christ has worked on you and you feel yourself yielding to the righteous urge. You're giving in to the urge to do righteous things. We are yielded to righteousness. That's a wonderful moment, right? When you feel that happening. So, it's an impartial yielded community.

We're in it together, right? So, that is, we're probably not going to make you guys say a German phrase to reference what we do here. But that is the idea behind membership, right? And that's the idea behind the core practices is so we can be that community, instantiated, instantiated, kept the practice together. The early church had a word for this. You've all got, if you didn't get a hand that we came in, please raise your hand so they can give you one. I guess not, didn't get one, Jones didn't get one. They're coming. For those of you who were here a year and a half ago, we went over the handout before. I hope that you'll get something out of it again. I was asked yesterday to speak today, so we can just do it quickly and I don't have proper

slides so that we're going to use the handout, okay? But once you have in that handout, there's a couple of columns. These are in the order they occur in the New Testament, by the way. These are the 19 instances, the koinia, which is the word the early church used, are used and it's a direct form. There's many other places it's used in a more complicated form. But in the first column, you'll have the reference, the verse where you'll find it. In the seventh column, that's the word used to translate koinia because it has a very large electrical space. That's why we're struggling with trying to find the right word to communicate for it. And in the last column is actually the verse, but with the word koinia written in, so you can see what would have been in context, okay?

So that's the handout. We're going to go through it here this morning because I think there's some insights in it. Let's look at number one, so if it's not, in Acts 2, the church had, Christ had come to earth, he had a ministry, he had been crucified, died, resurrected, left them behind with a mission and they weren't doing it, right? Because they didn't know how, they didn't know how, they didn't know what to do in it. Even though you taught them, it had never been done before. It has been 50 days since his death and resurrection. It was the next public festival and everybody kind of had a day off where they could gather. And the disciples were gathered in the same city where he'd been crucified, in the same upper room where they had the final supper together, right?

So this is a time of nostalgia and the longing, right? They're gathering together in the same place. And we're wishing, like, how would we do this, right? At which point, you know, from the second chapter of Acts, the power of God fell and they were imbued with the power of the Spirit like prophets of the old system to go and affect the world. And they began a process, they began putting their belief into action, that process began to happen, and we're still a part of it today. It started doing, it's still happening now, on the way to Braves and Boats are doing this morning, right? That is the path of the gospel, as a group, as a church group. And it says here, when they had done that and they said, so what got going on that day?

They were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching, to Cornelia, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer, right? The apostles' teaching, that wasn't Cornelia by itself. Breaking bread, eating together, prayer, and Cornelia. It was an addition to all that, right? So not just getting together and praying and hanging out, that's not it. There's more to it, right? Now, it's just transferring and fellowship, but clearly, breaking bread and praying together, that's the kind of fellowship, so there's something more going on here. I'm going to go ahead and read the entire bit of Acts 2, that section of Acts 2, because it's about as good a definition of Cornelia as you're going to find anywhere. So, here we go together. Now, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, to fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer.

Everyone was filled with awe, and many wonders and signs were being performed through the apostles. Now, all the believers were together, and they filled all things in common. And they sold their possessions and property and distributed the praises to all as any had need. And every day, they devoted themselves to meeting together in the temple. They brought bread from house to house. They ate the seed with joyful and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And every day, the Lord added to their numbers those who had been saved. That's what it is. It's this massive enterprise of its own energy that are rolling forward a joint venture in Christ that they all took part in. Let's look at number two. Excuse me, let's look at number three of us. In 1 Corinthians, Paul's giving an realization, God is faithful, through whom you are called

into coinia with his son. Okay, now it's fellowship with the divine. It's not giving up a friend. It's divine fellowship, right? God is faithful, through whom you are called into coinia with his son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Now I exhort you, brethren, by the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ, that you all agree, and that there will be no divisions among you. Coinia is not the unity. It's the reason you preserve the unity. Right? It's this joint venture that we're all working on together, and it's worth doing what it takes to stay unified, to push it forward. That's what they're in the church to sell. Paul's telling the creation is that. Let's look at number four and five. Is it not the cup of blessing which we've blessed, coinia in the blood of Christ? Is it not the bread which we break, coinia in the body of Christ?

What's he talking about? Community. Right? The holy right commanded by Christ can take part in his body and blood. That's part of our shares and what we have together. Now let's translate into sharing. This is not offering your coin to your neighbor. Right? It's not sharing. It's taking a share of you. Right? This is not the cup of blessing which we've blessed, coinia in the body of Christ. It's not the bread which we break, coinia in the body of Christ. Since there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all to take of the one bread. The early church always broke off a single loaf, always drank off a single cup, because their understanding was they were buying into, being abued into this unified body of Christ. Right? It was a oneness that they were taking shares in.

So it's fellowship. It's divine fellowship. It's a sharing and a shared, divine, sacred obligation. Let's look at number two, seven, and eight. These are about money. Right? Number two, Macedonia and Achaia, Paul says, have been pleased to make a coin a year for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem. The same thing that you take at communion, you have when you give it to the poor. Right? You're sharing into the common enterprise. This shared ownership, this shared endeavor. They were pleased to be able to give money in one place so that those who had been persecuted in Jerusalem could be supported. So it wasn't just us. It was like us helping in India. Right? They are having trouble. We're giving them their funds. Our funds. That's part of the shared experience. What did I say?

Two, seven, eight? Seven. They gave of their own accord, begging us with much urging for the favor of coin in the image for the saints. So people were saying, hello. You didn't ask for money. Isn't there someone we can give to? Right? Isn't there someone still hurting in Jerusalem? Can we give you something like we did last time?

Instead of thinking further down, he's giving thanks. So the ministry of the service is not only fully supplying the means of the saints, but it's also overflowing. We have more than we need. They will glorify God for your obedience to your confession of the gospel of Christ and for the liberality of your coin in it to them all. Did you get that? Your confession of the gospel and your giving of trust in the name of the gospel are synonymous in their importance. Right? That's what he says. They're going to thank you that you have this grief and then you put it into practice. Right? They also, by prayer on your behalf, yearning for you. You know, they can't give to you, but they're praying to you back so they can do what they do because we're all in this together.

Right? Clean it up. All right. So, the last thing on the front of the stage we're going to look at is 10. James, Cephas, and John gave to me, Paul, and Barnabas, the right hand of Cornelius so that we might go to the Gentiles. I'm going to express that one out a little bit so it's the same thing. Right? The Jews, Christian, James, John, Matthew, these guys were all Jewish. They were in Jerusalem, worshiping in the temple. They said that in service after that. They met each other's houses and they went to the temple and they're rejoicing. They already have a religious calendar. They already have a religious place. They already have religious practices into which they were pouring the practice that Christ offered. Right? When you got out to the Greek countries, no temple.

Right? No religious calendar. When Paul and Barnabas went to a city, most scholars believe they would just kind of rent one of those stalls. There was a living space upstairs and a kind of a stall downstairs. You could sell your words. And Priscilla and Aquila and Paul and Barnabas would make sense of selling them in the marketplace and proselytize while they did it. That's how they got. Because there was no temple to meet again. So, while the Christians in Jerusalem understood the Christian work to be the fellowship and the worship of the temple with this added layer of understanding that they'd gotten through Christ, they were totally secular looking at what had been going on with the Gentiles. So, Paul and Barnabas are in the marketplace and they're just kind of proselytizing people. He was very strange.

So, here's a Pharisee who used to kill the Christian going to non-Jewis and doing a non-religious thing and saying, Hey, are you guys good with this? So, he came back and talked to James, the bishop of Jerusalem, and he's a teacher upon whom he rocked out of the church, the leaders of the church there in Jerusalem. And they gave him the right hand of Cornelius. They said, Yeah, you're in this endeavor with us. And because of that, we're here. Right? So, that's an enormous... They went beyond their comfort zones. They invited people in and said, Yeah, we want you to do that thing. We want what you're doing, even though it sounds completely foreign to us and it's in a different dialect. And it doesn't look like what we understood this to be. It's clearly spreading the gospel of Christ and we're in it with you.

Right? So, when you think about... So, that story is what we know is in Dallas and Galatians, but we hear the story of Paul and Paul. What you have in the New Testament is... Can you bring me to that water? What we have in the New Testament is a couple of things. We have books of history, Acts, that tells how the church has begun and the practices that turned into place. We have, further back, the question of Yeba, why were they doing that? We have the memoirs and the history of the biography of Jesus, the life, and the gospel. And those are sort of retroactive, explaining to the church where they came from. Apart from that, you have letters, and the letters were written in real time, while the church was growing. So, while the church was going through all the stuff described in Acts, they were writing letters to each other, and that's the rest of the New Testament.

Right? So, the letters came before the histories, because it happened in real time, and the histories were written later. When they wrote the Christians to explain to the church where they came from, they wrote this sentence after that with an optimism. Hey, do you remember the time when we were all living in harmony, and the people I had used to them was daily, and it was all good, and we were giving each other as they had needed, selling of our possessions? Do you remember that time? Right? And they wrote that down as an optimistic memory, aspirational for the new churches to live into as they went through the bad time. Right? So, it was an all-beautiful community where nothing went wrong, but they've lost a memory of what it could be, and there was an aspiration to go to it.

And if you look at the rest of the letters in the New Testament, they were in crisis. The stuff that they're talking about, incest, people's blanket communion, all the stuff that Titus, the Psalter of Titus was going on with the people that were just misrepresenting the Gospels of churches, right? And so, you have this elder from afar, an apostle, pastor, writing in an apostle saying, hey, what's going on in the mind? Here's how you fix that. Those are the letters we preserved. So, you have to ask yourself, that does not sound like the glowing, loving, kind of incense that they described it as, you know, what's going on here? Are we just, you know, or are we kidding ourselves? I think to answer that, we should look at Philippians, and to give us a model for how we move forward, let's look at Philippians.

In number 11 and 12 on the back of your seat, there's two verses from Philippians. The first one is in 1-5. And I thank my God and my remembrance of you all is offering prayer with me in every prayer for you in view of your coining in the Gospels in the first day we saw around.

Excuse me. That's translated participation. You're participating in the gospel. I cannot think of a less understated word for what we're talking about here. Do we know who the church's list of Philippians was, right? Paul and Barnabas, quick, quick back story. Paul and Barnabas have had trouble having traction with some of the, they were actually the Celts, interestingly in northern Turkey, obviously years later the Celts were evangelized at the right time and place and came to Christ. But at the time, Paul and Barnabas couldn't make subway was in and said, I had a vision that they were frustrated. What's going on? Does he need to be working? A vision for God needs to be in Macedonia. You're in the wrong place, right? So they went over to Macedonia, across the U.N.C. there, different culture, different backgrounds, very Greek culture.

And when they got there, again, what do you do? So they start looking in the marketplace and they meet someone with you, a seller of purple. We know that Paul had already had a ministry guy in Colossae, where the purple bodies came from. So there was probably a column since previous ministering. And he met Lydia. They started a little home church. They were proselytizing out of this stall there in the marketplace. And in doing so, they converted or disrupted the work of a fortune teller, who was also in the market place. So now you've got two businesses. This guy says, well, the religious guy's next person. He doesn't have my business. Turns him over to the police, right? He gets Paul thrown in jail. Paul and Barnabas, Paul and Simon, excuse me, are in jail.

And you probably know the story of the prison, there's an earthquake. So first of all, you're falsely accused. It's something that you haven't really done. He's thrown in jail unjustly because he's a wrong citizen. Now there's an earthquake. This is what we call a bad day, right? There's an earthquake in the prison you're in. At that point, probably what I would do is cut for it and get back to briefly, right? That is not what Paul and Simon did. They took the opportunity. They weren't trying to get away. They were there to evangelize. Here's a golden opportunity. Terrified people in jail in an earthquake. And they called them together. They evangelized. They had him singing praises to God. They were converting people. They were using that moment as part of their evangelism. And on top of that, the jailer thinks that, of course, everyone had a state.

He's going to kill himself because he knows he's going to do that. He's going to find out he's going to have pecans for the way. And Paul saves his life. No, no, no. We're still here. Of course we didn't. Come and join the praise service. You know? Can you imagine? And that act of just being focused on the mission instead of his misery created the church itself. So when Paul writes in the letters of Philippians, remember my fame back to the Philippians? He's writing to his previous jailer, right? The person who's thrown him in jail previously. He's seen God molested. He's delivered him. These were the people that went on to become his primary financial baptist and send him on his mission and support him in his life. In the book of Philippians, the reason for the letter, the approximate reason, is that the church of Philippians, when Paul has been thrown in jail again in another city, has sent a young man down to give him money.

So he didn't provide in jail. So he can buy food and bribe the guards and all those things he'll be able to do back in those days, right? And that young man has fallen ill. This sounds like, again, bad day that our missionary's been thrown in jail. The guy who's sick with money is about to die. He's deathly ill in a foreign country. And Paul writes that and says, no, no, no. It's all good. First of all, he's recovering. He's not going to die. Secondly, even if I die, the mission of the gospel will still go on. So we're good because you guys exist and we're in this together in the coming year, right? That's the level of participation we're talking about, right? So when it says, is you and your participation in the Gospels on the first time tonight?

That's what Paul's talking about. They were all in. They changed their priorities. They changed their money. They changed their focus. They were sending people with their own, in risk of their own health, the foreign lands to support them. That's the kind of participation we're talking about. That's going to be it, okay? That's what the early faith is talking about.

So, Philippians itself is sort of stoked in an awareness, Paul's awareness of his impending event. He didn't do it, but he thought he was going to do it.

In Philippians 3, he talks about, I'm not yet perfected, but I will be soon when I see Christ, right? Meaning, my life will be fulfilled when I'm standing in his early days, when I'm reunified with Christ in his death. That's what I was made for. That's what I was made for. I'm almost there, guys. That's a perspective for you.

In 1.21, he says, for me to live Christ and die again, this is what he says just before that. That's a famous quote, right? For me to live Christ and die again. Just before that, my eager expectation and hope is that I will not be ashamed about anything. I'm embarrassed in his death, right? But that now, as always, with all courage, Christ will be highly honored in my body, whether by life or by faith, for me to live Christ and die again. He thought he was going to die. That's why he said that. In 1.21 and 22, in 14 and 16, he talked all the way through here about his return of death. And it's interesting that when we read Philippians, we don't read it that way. As I'm saying, some of you might just say, I don't remember reading that in Philippians.

Because when we read it, it's just one quote after another. It's victory verse after victory verse, right? 4.15, my God is to supply all your needs according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. 1.6, he has begun a good work and you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. 4.6, be anxious for nothing but by everything, by prayer and supplication and the things given. Make sure you request known of the God and the peace of God that passes your understanding and will guard your heart and mind. How is it my God in jail about to be executed, right? Verse 4.8, what sort of things are true, what sort of things are honest, there's going to be any virtue of praise. Think on these uplifting things, right? 2.10, that's the name of Jesus.

Every new will bow is king and earth and heaven and I need to hear it. And confess that Jesus Christ is Lord and the glory of God the Father. These were phrases written by someone who should have been in dire fear of his own demoges. And he was talking about the gospel of Christ. And I was so amazed that especially because he's writing about some people in Philippi who supported him and he's seen him come out of prison before and he had been in jailers. That optimism, we see it off. It was a lie. It just wasn't driven by circumstances. This ball of corneal, this huge period in desert days that they could get committed themselves to, as long as it was going forward, things were going right. And the theology of the New Testament, and that's particularly when they doffled, is that when something goes wrong, it's still God finding a way to make the right thing the truth.

Christ came, died. Seems like the end of the world saved the world through it, right? Paul was thrown in jail, earthquake. Seems like the end of the world started the Philippian church through it. There is no end. There's only a new opportunity for the gospel to spread. That's the mentality of corneal. And that's the kind of participation we're talking about. Number 12 on your list. Is there any corneal of the spirit? If any affection, any compassion, make my joy complete by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united with one spirit, intent on one purpose. That one purpose? Do you get the implication of that? It's not just fellowship. It's not just divine fellowship. It's not just hearing a religious right. It's not just hearing Christ. It's not just having participation in a human venture.

It's all of these things in the gospel. So it's friends. It's money. It's time. It's self. It's communion. Let's look at 11, 12, and 13. Right? 11, 13. Whatever things are gained to me, those things I've counted as rubbish, so that I might gain Christ, that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the corneal of his sufferings. Did you catch that? Corneal of his sufferings. What's the other thing that we share in common? His sufferings. Right? All were ecstatic that they were able to share in Christ's sufferings. James and John, when they healed the blind men in the temple and were called in before the Sanhedrin, they rejoiced that they were able to share in Christ's sufferings because they were so bought into this mission. This thing in which they had shared ownership and fellowship and divine evangelism.

So, it's always a joint venture. It's always our venture. In the Lord's Prayer in the New Testament, our Father, forgive us our sins. It's all plural, right? Lead us not in temptation, deliver us from evil. In John, when we talk about biting in the vine, one vine, many branches, where the branches follow one vine. Everything about what the early church talks about, this point in here, was a sheer venture. It wasn't individual. And we miss that sometimes when we read the New Testament. For two reasons, one, because we're Americans and we're a strong community of individuals. And we want to read how God wants to speak to me and what he's done for me and how I can put it in my life and how I can be reduced to him and how I can use my gifts.

And there's not wrong. You should use it, right? And he did that for you. And if it's all about you, you are genuinely missing what the early brethren knew, that you couldn't be saved. It's a key sport, right? You could be, you could get on a football field with a club with a helmet and run around and try to score a touchdown. But you're not playing football. And you're not going to win. You know, I think a lot of us think that maybe we're playing with the peewee team, but we can do it on our own, right? And we're not. We're all sowns. And we wrestle not against flesh or blood, but against principalities and powers. And it's a key sport. And the practices and the religious disciplines that you have to develop are developed in a community.

Real relationship is required for Christian growth to a court. And that's why it's only a core of the practices. So, with this background, let's look at that core practice again. We said we prioritize real relationships. So, it's real relationships. Real communities. That implies that we deal with a folk community, okay? Or facades. Or the mass community. Do you guys have some places in your life where it feels like it's not that real? Okay, yeah. And so, that sounds good that we'd like to build a place where everybody's real. But what it really means, you've got to build a place where you're real, right? That's what it means. It also says that there might be boundaries and exclusions. We admire that as real community, and if you're not in that, you're in your life, right? We'll put it in Matthew 18 when we think about that.

Matt talked a couple of weeks ago about the Ecclesia. We mentioned that the church is called the Ecclesia in Matthew 18. And Matthew 18, a concept is put together for if, again, I'm not the kill. I don't have to be strict, right? So, he's got a problem with me now. He's pretty. And at that point, you know, he doesn't go to Mike and say, hey, you can't see my truck guy. You know, he's still with me, right? And honestly, I should go to him, right? We should, we work for that. If you can't work it out, Matthew 18 says, well, call in a third party. And the implication is it's an elder so that, you know, they document what you said to each other. If someone was little material, you can speak in this situation.

You don't left the living again to make it worse, right? So, you bring a third party in, wisdom, wisdom. And if that doesn't work, you bring it to the whole congregation. And a lot of us have had some experience in our house where someone was called up in front of the congregation and excoriated in for us, right? That's the question we're talking about. If we're in the congregation together and we're all concerned about making sure the health of the congregation stays, we're calling together and saying, hey, we've got to fix this, right? We have a problem with the hand that can affect the whole body. You fix the, all hands on deck to fix that problem in the hand because we care.

So, the ecclesia, imaginative, it's an odd thing for Christ to have referred to what we now translate as church when there wasn't a church yet. But he actually says the ecclesia, the assembly, which was a metaphor for, in Greek cities, it was the assembly of people that had come to the common square and vote on the handling of the city, right? They would come out and deal with what they held in common together. And Christ was saying, you bring everybody who's in there who's holding parts in common together when you deal with these problems. You don't let access them. That's what Matthew 18 says. So, are you, and it finally says imagination, and this is the part where it feels like it's frozen, and if someone still at that point just won't make it right, you exceed them like a tax collectors and a pagan.

That sounds harsh. And so, you need to ask yourself, how did Jesus keep tax collectors and pagans? Right? He spent his entire life trying to reach out to him, going to dinner with him, bringing him in, telling him to forgive him. Who is he fighting with all the time? Pharisees, religious leaders who are getting it wrong, right? He held those who should have been doing the credit and you're right to a higher standard. So, shared community, real community, is about holding each other to a higher standard. When I say I'm all in, I'm allowing Tara to tell me when I'm off base. And at that point, how am I going to react? Right? How much am I in? Do I care about the good of the whole enough to humble myself? That's what we're talking about.

That higher level of accountability is a gift to one another. It feels to us like, even when I say that, you're like, yeah, that's what's required to have a solid, shared endeavor. No, that's part of the solid, shared endeavor. It's not like there's a lot of good stuff created by God. That actually gives a gift to one another to be that vulnerable and to be that willing to speak up. And let's say that James is a judge middle joke, right? Just say that. Okay.

Let's say 99 of us out of 100 are in this right and we're all perfect. But James is a judge, right? And so now we're worried about getting into a relationship with him where he doesn't get it right. Well, that's what I have to get it together to be. You get together and you say, man, we're going to work this out, dude. We care about this together. Oh, wait. I'm the judge, right? I'm the one who is calling the judge middle, right? Anyway, we work it out together in Christ, in love. But you don't let it press go. So there is protection in that we are debated when we're all right together. That's the model that Christ commanded. For want of time, I'm just going to skip on here a little bit. We're, let's talk about one of the things we should realize about real community that comes from real relationship.

And that is that it's not idealized community, right? This is not an imaginary or pastoral picture you have of how church might be. Someone will bring your truck into a church, right? And you really get at odds with one another. And it's what happens the next that matters. Do you live off the love of Christ? So this mission can continue. That's the real relationship. There's a quote from Donald. Dietrich Bonhoeffer was living at a time in World War II in Germany when the National Socialist Party was taking over the church and using it for its own purposes. And it was very difficult to have a real Christian community. And he wrote the book Life Together, which is on my top five books that all Christians can read. I think all the pastors could, like, put their top five books up in the lobby.

That would be on the end. So, um, let's read Life Together. But his quote was, the person who loved and dreamed of community will destroy the community. But the person who loves those around them will create the community. If you want everybody to behave in this way that it works the way it was in your head, you're not dealing with the people. You're dealing with your imagination. You have to love the people as they are, where they are, and that's the real community. That's the real relationships that's what I've correlated with. Everybody got that. I saw a couple of numbers. I need everybody to get that. All right. Bob, I'm going to talk about that. Throughout the history of the church, there's been a lot of discussion of means of grace. How grace comes to the church.

In my experience, and those are loaded terms for people that grew up in a liturgical background or a high church. But in my experience, and in my studies about the New Testament, community is the primary means of grace. The early brethren actually called them the kids means of grace. When they gathered through communion, they didn't have a mental phone and stuff. So, they would come three days early and make sure they'd work out all their issues. Make sure they were still in harmony, or in part of it, in my sense, right. They made sure they were still together before they took communion because it was so important. And that those occasions of grace, when I now have the opportunity to be grateful to you, and I have the opportunity to humble myself and accept your grace, that's where the grace of God says. We're the actions of the community doing this together. And that's why we prioritize the real community.

If anybody watched the video I did, I talked about how the Brethren Church placed the book, Piotis and Anababas, the Piotis were a solid church. They brought the love of Christ and the focus on Christ, Jesus, to the foreground. Obedience was a big deal for life. But they didn't seek to be a community. And so, there is no place that the obedience could be practiced, right. The Anababas were all about communities. So, we take the focus on Christ and diatism, the focus on community from Anababas, and we want to create a real community where we can put our practice into practice and develop the character of Christ into this body of Christ. That's what we're looking for. And that's what, hopefully, happened at Blazing Hope this week, right. So, in the early church at the first and in the early church,

as they were preparing for communion, they would go through examination of repentance, forgiveness, to them to unity so that they would be ready to take that communion, right. I would like to talk to you very quickly about what that looks like in a community that's absolutely united in real relationships. What does that look like? Scripture says, for when you examine yourself, a man also examines himself before he uses the bread and brings to the cup. It's the first kind of thing where he's going to read. What does that mean in a group? What does that mean? I'm sitting quietly in a group of people, ignoring them, and examining myself. It doesn't mean it. Does that mean I'm examining my neighbor to see what he needs to fix? It might, but that should be according to yourself.

It's like they're not doing it. Right? Does it mean that I nakedly examine myself before my neighbor and humble myself before him? Yes, that's what that means. Right? James tells us to confess our sins to our neighbor. And that's troubling in three ways. One, you know, you don't know that they'll handle it well, and why did your life do it worse? Two, it's something that feels like it puts myself in a place of God, and I don't want to be hearing your sins. What am I to forgive you? But I'd like to give you another quote from Beinhofer that addresses that. Acknowledge sin loses its power of an acknowledge, because it's been revealed as sin and judged as sin. It can no longer be a child of care of the self-esteem of someone. It's not in your past.

It depends on your past, not your future. We dealt with it, called it sin, out loud, and we deal with it together. Why is it so often easier for us to confess our sins to God than confess to a brother? We must ask ourselves whether or not we've often been really deceiving ourselves without confessing our sins to God, and whether we're really not going to be confessing our sins to ourselves and drowning ourselves absolutely. And perhaps this is not the reason that a countless relapse and feebleness of our dishonest obedience could be found precisely in the fact that we are living on self-forgiveness and not real forgiveness. And confessing to our brother breaks the cycle of self-deception. I can't kid you when I tell you what I really do. I can't say I kid you about whether I've really confessed and repented and turned.

Confessing to your brother breaks the cycle of self-deception. So, true examination in a group can be frightening and can pull you together like nothing else. But at that point, now we're just a piece of pressure, people like, don't worry. But what do you mean that? Well, Christ, you know, even in real judgment, probably if my teachers are called by my name will humble themselves and pray, keep my face and turn from their wicked ways, then my teacher has won't forgive them if you're over the land. Right? You repent. And repent is an exhausting thing in which you stop sinning, you admit it, and you pray to go very well. That's what repent means is we all want to make kids turn around. In Matthew 18, we're told we had to deal with conflict in the church.

So again, how do you deal with it when someone confronts you with his family? Do you repent? Do you repent? You've examined together. Now you repent together. Right? And you can hold one another accountable. The same brothers that were there to nakedly confess before you were there to support you. It is a means of grace that our brother was in our life so that when we nakedly examine ourselves, we can't get ourselves in its grace to one another that if we create the conditions according to you with someone that's able to do that without being torn down by it, then we can repent and carry on together. We're not holding ourselves up to some idealist question. We're holding ourselves up to fulfilling the focus of our creation together. Okay, so, we've examined. I've had to repent in front of James.

You know, he's got him forgiven. Right? Forgiveness, right? Scripture says, The blood of my covenant, I poured out to you in forgiveness. That's the purpose of communion. The same brother was sending me to confess and who will forgive or available for the healing and restoration process and we have to deal with it to one another. You let it go like God's will. Right? And if you don't have the strength, let it go like God's will. Because you're totally going to let you work on it together. That's your fulfillment. Right? But you don't hold until all the things that they've got to be retentive on it. And that will mean, oh my gosh, if anyone had any questions, that would lead to unity. Right? If we examine that nakedly, if we retent it, if we forgave,

of course you're going to be unified. Right? And now the gospel will be pushed forward in poor oil. I have forwardly not mentioned the labeling at all. Right? But this is absolutely what happened in their experience. Right? Yeah. Anyway. So unity. We who are one body, we who are many are one body, because we proclaim the one race, Paul tells us in the speaking of communion. That's when we become the one body, proclaim the Christ. This is not a single-spirit and disposable sort of friendship koinonia. This is an all-in joint venture that we want to do together. Durable relationships, which is why the Apostles' Creed, what we have in the Apostles' Creed was the baptismal confession of the early church. You'd stand up and say, I believe this, I believe this, I believe we're one worldwide church,

and we're doing this thing. There was no sort of people, like I said with the brethren earlier, there was no sort of bleeding Christ on day one and then joining a church on day three. It was the same thing. You're in this 20 minutes game. And finally, once you have that kind of unity, thanksgiving would just be indignant. You'd be happy together, right? Thanksgiving in unity is intrinsic in Christ because we have different priorities and we hold them together. I'm going to read, again, from Philippians. The first bit when he gives thanks. This is a man who is in prison expecting to buy. I give thanks to my God for every remembrance of you. written to you in previous years. Always praying this joy for you, that all of you, in my every prayer, because of your partnership,

they're pointing you in the gospel from the first day until now. I'm sure of this, that he who started the good work in you will carry it on to completion, perfection, until the day of Christ Jesus. Indeed, it's right for me to think this way about you all because I have you in my heart and you're all partners with me in this grace, both in my imprisonment and in the defense and country race of the gospel. He's not talking about his civil defense. He's talking about defending the work of the gospel as he's about to default to accuse. For God is my witness how deeply I am in this to all of you with the affection of Christ Jesus. And I pray this, that your love will keep on growing in knowledge and every kind of deployment

so that you may approve the things that are superior and may be pure and blameless in the air of Christ, filled with the freedom of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and the praise of God. Thus, Cornelius again. I'm going to read you one more quote from Don Hacker because I'm answering it. This again is written in the shadow of the Nazi party that is found to fill out his church. It's easily forgotten that the gospel of Christian brethren is a gift of grace, a gift of the kingdom of God that any day may be taken from us. And we forget that the time that still separates us from other loneliness may be brief indeed. Therefore, let him who until now have had the privilege of living a common Christian life with other Christians,

praise God from the bottom of his heart. Let him thank God on his knees and declare that it is grace, nothing but grace that we are allowed to live in the community of Christian brethren. For Christian community is only this, we belong to one another only through a name of Jesus Christ. What does that mean? It means first that the Christians need others because of Jesus Christ. That's why you need each other. It means second that a Christian comes to others only through Jesus Christ. It wouldn't be here for any other reason. And you were hearing thirdly that in Jesus Christ we have been chosen from eternity and accepted in time and united here for eternity. The people that we're building are for now will be with you for eternity. It could be nice to you.

I agree. So I'm really happy to join the community, the real community, as you guys today. We value the real community as our core of practice. Ongoing commitment to put our faith into practices before God helps our practices make us perfected. And we can look forward to God working great things in ourselves and our community and our city together as the body of Christ grows together into the character of Christ. Let's pray. Father God, I just thank you for this community and I thank you for the opportunities to put your love into action for those around us. I pray that as we join in we will find new and things we have not imagined that we can do when we commit our time and our resources and our priorities and our agendas to you together in a community

serving you. And I pray that you pray to the Lord and smiley and I thank you for this week and we'll work for that. In Jesus' name, amen.
