Spiritual Stations: Servant
2023-03-13
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MJsMLOwUj3k

Transcription by CastingWords Transcription by CastingWords Transcription by CastingWords

And Lord, most of all, I ask that your will be accomplished, no matter if we understand it or not, that you would just give us a heart for the things that you have your heart sent to. As we venture into the discipline of the sermon, Lord, I ask that you give these people a heart to receive a message, not that I've put together, not that any of us put together, but that you would touch each person differently with your message, that you would have them know that you would transform their lives. And we do all of this for the glory of God in our members, and in Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. So, hopefully you guys have been keeping up with those spiritual spiritual experiences. And I know I'm supposed to say this, but, do y'all enjoy this?

Maybe I did, y'all don't think that, but I've enjoyed it. If you haven't heard about it, I encourage you to go back and listen to them, because I think they're transformational. And I've learned things about myself. I've learned things about how others approach God. And I get to see what only God can do, and that's typically work out things that are way bigger than my people might even put together. So, to reach out, we've covered the mystics, the heart, the head, and now, today, I get the privilege of talking about the spirit. And the way this chart is structured, I don't think anybody covered Christ's eye in all six categories. If somebody did that, I'd like to know how you do it. So, what that means is, like, it shows us areas that we have, that we can go in, right?

That we can experiment in, while understanding how others might approach God or understand God differently in a different direction, right? Being that we're working through the spiritual disciplines of serving, I wrote a note from Ryan's sermon last week. And I'm trying to end up living, to make it speak my own message, because that's really cute, right? But it bled into mine, or I'm going to try to make it blend into mine, healthy orthodoxy leads to healthy orthodoxy. You can go ahead and throw that up on the stage, and you would, Dave, if you're back there. Now, I want to untrace that a little bit, because if you're not familiar with those times, you can be like, that's a bunch of mumbo-jumbo, and I don't want anyone to know what that means. So, I want to untrace that, because I think a light bulb went off in my head when I heard that.

It is hard, it's a big part of biblical servanthood. It's not a necessity, but I think for some it might resonate, because it resonated for me, and I'm going to try to untrace that for you guys. And at the end of this, you all get like an eighth of a theology credit in an unaccredited school. I was trying to watch Matt out of the corner, and I have to see these face palms, as I call that. That's not true, but orthodoxy means, or is defined as, all the lives are generally accepted theory, doctrine, or practice. Trusting in God is orthodoxy. Orthodoxy, now, is the idea of correct conduct according to your faith. The orthodoxy says, because I trust in God, I'm going to do what God says to me. So, I've got this verse that I want to, I think will help connect those two blocks for you,

and it's Titus 3.8. So, I want to stress these things so that those who have trusted in God, right, orthodoxy, may be canceled to the heart themselves through doing what is your heart, orthodoxy. I mean, that our faith is lived out according to the way we see it, or the way we interpret Scripture. In our brotherhood history courses, this idea is known as radical prietism. Let's see what it is. It is. So, that God speaking to us through the Scripture should change our lifestyle and how we do things, right? I started ending my prayers with this thought. You may have heard it today. But it's that we do all this for the glory of God in our neighbor's good. It is something we learned in our class, that Christopher Stower in early classes had this thing in his church company.

It resonated with me because of this idea that healthy orthodoxy leads to healthy orthodoxy. For the glory of God in our neighbor's good. John Mark Comer said it like this. The gospel we live in is the gospel we live out. See, the spiritual servants think in this mindset that we have to let the world be our Savior through acts of service. See, Jesus came to serve us, therefore we need to serve others. Healthy orthodoxy leads to healthy orthodoxy. Does everybody kind of tackle with me with that? Yeah, we got the red dots, okay. Because I'm a theology guy, I wanted to make sure I talked about this. Don't, when you hear spiritual spaces of the servant, don't joke on the theology of a workspace salvation bandwagon. That's not what I'm talking about here. That's not healthy service.

Don't talk about people who have the desire to work for God through his salvation, not for his salvation. So, needless to say, when I got the servant, I was like, I can find a thousand passages to put on this. But, the one that kept coming to mind was John 2. Hopefully, I step into this one because I hope the Spirit has something for you there. This is just somewhere that I couldn't get away from it. I'm sorry, I'm going to go, you know what, I'm back to John 2. So, if you would, turn your Bibles to John 2, 1 through 12. If you're on your app, we're going to be reading out the NLT today. We're going to read 1 through 12.

So, the next day, Jesus' mother was a guest at a wedding celebration in the village of Community Gallery. Jesus and his disciples were also invited to the celebration. The wine supply ran out during the festivities, so Jesus' mother spoke to him about the problem. They had no more wine, she told him. How does that concern you and me, Jesus, though? If my plan has not yet come. But his mother told the servants, do whatever he tells you. His stern waterfalls were standing there, and they were used to do his ceremony. And they held 20 to 30 gallons each. He sold the servants, filled the jars with water. And when they had been spilled to the brine, he said, Get some out and take it to the master of the ceremony. So, he followed his instructions.

When the master of the ceremony sings of the water that was now wine, not knowing where it had come from. Though, of course, the servants knew, he called the bridegroom over. Usually, a host throws the best wine first, he said. Then, when everyone is full and doesn't care, he brings up a less expensive wine. So, you would have kept the best until you're in it. This miraculous sign at Canaan Gallery was used as his first display of his glory, and his disciples believed him. After the wedding, he went to the throne for a few days with his mothers, his brothers, and his disciples. So, where are my fancy wine cases, right? Oh, get them out of here. Get them out. I'm sorry. They're open. But, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to sort of pull you guys into the same space as me today.

Space. I know. I won't keep you here long. I'm a mess. But, we're going to try. See, Matt and Ryan kind of mentor me in this pastoral thing. And, part of the style of setting up a sermon that I'm comfortable with is the thought of a somatic theme, or a somatic idea of goal, right? This overarching thing that I'm trying to teach. So, I'm going to let you in to see the man behind the curtain. My somatic idea for this sermon is that biblical servanthood is a transformative discipline that lets the world see Jesus while simultaneously changing us. I think we have a slide, but we're going to leave that out. So, you guys paid attention to the verse passage. I'm kind of excited about this last week, Seth. I like your question and response time.

As much as we know, this is my statement. It's like, hey, can we do it? And, I know it gets awkward. Like, hear me out. Like, the guy in the front is like, yeah, yell it out. And, you're like, I'm not going to yell it out because I'm going to be wrong. You're going to say something else that I'm going to see you. But, it needs to open the book. I mean, feel free. We're going to talk about something soon. So, I'm going to be real easy about it. The wedding rang out of what? Why? You know, like, you've got some talks for me. I mean, who talks to you since they have no more wives? You have advice to Larry about it. Because, you know, you're not going to be wrong. Who is it?

Mary. What did Mary tell the servants? Do whatever he tells you. What did Jesus tell them? It's two points, though. It's a question. What's that? Not about telling what I was married. What did Jesus tell the servants?

Yes. Fill the jars of water and take it to the master's ceremonies. Did the servants have a strategic frame for this? That's a quick question. You have to fill in the blank there a little bit. See, I have a false thought before you at the first. Did the servants argue over if this would benefit their church? I'm sorry. Did the servants argue over that strategic frame? No. No, they were just obedient to Jesus. Now, I want to point your attention to verse 9. I can find it. When the master of ceremonies tasted the water, that was no water, not knowing where to come from. What's that next part? The servants knew. Who were the ones, this is going to make a question, you have to fill in the blank here. Who were the ones to witness the miracle?

Who witnessed it? The servants. Who benefited from the miracle? All the way behind it. See, biblical servanthood is a transformative discipline that lets the world see Jesus well, simultaneously changing a life. Did Jesus have stood up and told everyone at the wedding to fill your own couple's water? I'm right, changing the water. Could he have done that? Sure. We have seen. We have seen Jesus to do that. That's a safe assumption. But he said Jesus chose to partner with servants. Do you think any of the servants that were there that day left the same way after they encountered Jesus?

Can we even imagine the ripple effects of how God can use our small acts of obedience to build his kingdom? How those small acts of obedience affect people around him. So I think we often try to remind us of ourselves that we need to do something big, something so huge for the kingdom of God, or it's not worth doing. How many of you guys are like that? You don't have to answer me. Just think about it. It's a pretty arrogant statement, but I'm well in that way. How many times do I ignore something simple to do because it's not grandiose and as big as I'd like it to be? Because what we need to do is to be obedient in our service. We need to do whatever he tells you, as Mary told us today.

See, Ryan said something last week that we both take tremendous part in. And that's that we serve a king with an upside-down kingdom. And personally, like I said, I want to make sure you guys are all talking with me. When it comes to that idea, it's laid out by Jesus on the throne of the Lamb. And what we mean by that, sorry, Ryan, I didn't put words in, but this is not what you mean by that. But I think what Ryan and I mean by that, that's what I mean by that, is that Jesus has saved the power dynamics of the fallen world with his now installment and installment as king over this new creation, right, his redeeming power over this creation. Now the lowest, now the lowest sequence inside of the servants have the privilege and accessibility

to partner with the king of kings and Lord of lords in his ministry and mission. So these servants, they got to see where the miracles came from. Everyone else just got to enjoy the blessing. So Jesus kills the servants to see his power over nature in time by creating the best woman. I didn't take my wine drinks out earlier. They can tell you that the best wine is aged. See, this is the power of Jesus. This is the privilege that we have partnering in the act of serving. Right, that biblical serving helps. I know there's a communication run out over the app. But he's got to, there should be a handout with ways to serve people too. Is that Seth? Anybody? Yep.

I want you to throw it out now. I want you to take it home. I want you to prick over it. I want you, you and the spirit, to find ways where you're called to serve. Even if it's not here in your own faith community, I want you to pray about serving your neighbors. I want you to pray about serving someone you find it impossible, very difficult to serve. So I encourage you to serve, not because I'm not looking for people to help. I'm encouraging you to serve because just like the wedding at Canada, that there may be blessings that you get to enjoy, but you don't get to see where the miracles come from. So I want you to be able to partner with Jesus to see where those miracles come from. One of the blessings that we all got to enjoy was this winter when we got to sell our building with Watts.

And maybe some of you don't know the acronym, but it's the Winchester Area of Temporary Firmish. And I don't want to steal any of my dad. I saw my dad in here. I don't want to steal any of his thunder, but I mean, I think it's an operation where we take people experiencing homelessness, no matter their condition, and give them the respect and dignity of a warm meal or warm bed and things that they're in need of in a non-transactional environment. A safe place for everyone where we have the opportunity, and not just us, but other church bodies as well, we have that opportunity to save them. But we're not just serving them, are we?

We're living, we should be living out that partnership with Jesus to see our neighbors taking care of them. That puts a little bit of a spin on it, doesn't it? It's not us helping them, it's this idea that we're partnering with our kids. But in the same breath, they're also serving us without even realizing, but allowing us to do these things. See, weekly, we have a pool of volunteers to get to spend time teaching our kids. My kids are about Jesus. From babies to young adults. And maybe we're not going to teach the babies, like I also feed that. But maybe it's their mom and dads that just gives them a moment of peace. Maybe it's just a time for them to sit and hear about Jesus, and maybe even encounter Jesus for the first time.

Maybe it's a child or young adult that gets to see someone investing in them. Hugging them until he was feeling the love of Jesus in this world is getting too much to handle. See, it doesn't have to be these babies changing things to be obedient and be serving. It's not being a servant. Maybe it's the kids' club next door that gets to see a church that's really loving its neighbors and stuff. Brothers and sisters, I want you to experience, just like the servants that came up, the miracle worker, as well as the miracles. Because I don't want you to leave the same after encountering in Jesus. Who served you up saying that too much of anything would be a bad thing? Anybody? Yeah, okay. So it's a common sense. Being a servant, and this premise will work with any that we've covered, right?

I've been at the heart, domestic, it's going to work with pilgrim and crusader. It's too much of a bad thing. Too much of anything would be a bad thing. But within each of these spaces there exists a healthy approach. Before God, even there exists an unhealthy approach that borders our idolatry.

So, I mean, turns the steps of not willing to service. And what I mean by that is, I think you can actually turn service into a paradigm unit. You can actually help someone so much that it's now a paradigm unit. The truth can turn it into self-service. That you serve so much because you find a benefit in the life.

And even over-service, where you're not a healthy minister, does it? Right? We probably all have stories where we've seen that in action. And where we can easily find our identity in service, and in the same breath, lose our identity in Christ. Y'all know what I'm talking about? D.L. Moody puts it like this. The fact is we are leaky vessels, but we have to speak right under the fountain all the time to speak full of Christ, so that we have a fresh supply. You can't be a healthy mother if you're not taking care of yourself. You can't be a healthy father if you're not taking care of yourself. You can't be a healthy minister unless you're being ministered to. You can't be a healthy servant without being served with Jesus. And maybe not a healthy servant, but a biblical servant without being served with Jesus.

Church, do any person's check of who you are serving. Are you serving yourself? Are you serving everyone else? Or are you actually serving Jesus? See, who in the crowd wants to help others out? Like, that's all. So, yeah. Heck yeah. Who in the crowd wants to be helped? Okay, we know. You know, you guys are way more spiritual than me. That's like, that's my hangout. So, that's me. That's, that's the reality check, right? That's where I have to come. So, Matt, raise this hand. Matt's the one that's really, we talked about this. So, that's the reality check. So, that's where you need to check yourself. So, humility and being a servant, also part of the generosity in serving. Right? Generous to serve, there's also a generosity in being served. So, service and humility always go hand in hand if we are looking to be biblical servants.

Jesus, like always, is the prime example of this. And I'm going to read Matthew 10, ladder of house of 42 and 45, if you want to flip there with me. But you know that the rulers of this world Lord it over their people. And officials applaud their authority over those under them. But among you, among you, church, there will be different. Whoever wants to be a leader among you must be your servant. And whoever wants to be first among you must be the slave of everyone else. Even the son of the man did not tell him to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a renaissance for many. But we can agree that Jesus came to serve and give us the ultimate example of serving him. This is right here. This is, I don't know.

I'm working through this. Church, I don't lie. There's a tension to our christianity. There's a tension to our faith. And that tension is, to experience freedom in Christ, you must be a slave. To experience freedom in Christ, you must be a slave. And to experience life, this abundant life that we're promised, you must die to yourself. Right? There's a tension there that doesn't make sense in this world that we're in, but it exists to make sense in this world that Jesus promised. This new creation. This service and humility go hand in hand in this biblical serverhood. We'll read Matthew 6, 1-2-4. Watch out. Don't give your good deeds publicly, to be admired by others, or you will lose a reward to your Father in heaven. When you give to someone in need, don't do this with hypocrites doing it.

Rolling trumpets in the synagogues and greets to call attention to their house of charity. I'll tell you the truth. They have received all the reward that they will ever get. But when you give, when you, church, give to someone in need, don't let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. Give your gifts in private. And your Father, who sees everything, will reward you. Do we believe that? Do we believe that truth? That if we don't toot our own horns, that I thought it would reward you. Church feels good to be a good biblical, biblical servant is an important criteria of humility.

Because I'm preaching to myself here, I often find myself in the place of Peter at the Last Supper. Willing and desiring to wash feet both metaphorically and literally. It's a humbling out, it's meant to be. I will wash feet all by me.

But, but, but, in some of the truth sense, right? Do I have the mindset that there is no way I'm going to let someone wash my feet? They're gross, they're disgusting, they're smelly, I'm not. It might aid them, but I don't think that's more the right. I wish Peter went, moreover, I really love the king of kings and Lord of lords wash their feet. Psalm 13, 8-9, Peter protested, no. You will never wash my feet. Jesus replied, unless I wash you, you don't belong to me. Psalm 13, 8-9, I'm going to wash my hands, my head as well, Lord, not just my feet. And Peter, like, that's why I resonate with Peter, Peter's a lot, like. But I can resonate with that sentiment, like. Anyway, let me unpack that for you. And Jesus kind of corrects Peter's posture in the next verse,

like, that desire, ability, and fortitude to help someone else, that's a good thing. But it's not a healthy biblical approach, unless it's partnered with humanity. Service and humanity go hand in hand in the realm of biblical service.

I was busy, I want to tell you this story in the midst of, I haven't forgotten this book lesson yet, so in the midst of this, I'll tell you a story. I, uh, I've been with an old pastor mentor of mine one time. And we, I don't know, he grew up with him, he's my father pastor. And we were talking about performing weddings, funerals, sermons, and bachelors. And I had just done my first wedding. He took this book off the shelf, and he came to me. And I flipped through the pages, and he's got 50 years of sermons and baptisms and marriages. And he's like, man, this, people will want to remember when this happened, right? I would basically say Ryan, James, and Chris are going to want to remember their baptism. And I said, he's like, you're going to want to write this down.

And he said to me something, and he said, I'm going to, I'm going to buy you one. And I'm like, hold on. And then, I'm just, let me give you context for this conversation. He, um, had lost a pair from chemo. He's well into his 70s at this point. Uh, medical bills are coming up. He's going to fix things, huh? And then, and I said, no, it's cool. I can buy my own good job. I'm cool. That's money. I can buy my own. Not a big deal. How many of us are guilty, though? My real one. And this has to be something that I hope I never forget. It's kind of resonated with him in this room, and the reason I tell you is he, he said something, and he said, I don't think he meant it to him and speak, but I think he couldn't

be used that way, because don't steal my blessing. Right? How often are we guilty of stealing someone else's blessing because we're unwilling, unwilling or not humble enough to be served? See, church, we're called to be served in service of our neighbors for to see each other service to the world, but we're also called to be served. So, it's one of the prayers of this church is that we're a kingdom outcome. It's just in our city, and we are attracted to serve and having to be served. Let's be this blessing. Let's be where the miracle worker, let's see the miracle worker, and let's also be served and let someone else see the blessing in their service. See, let's take a couple of them and have a biblical service where they're getting a transformative discipline that lets the world see Jesus while simultaneously changing hate us.

Something that bounds you all with something else. And I know foot blessing might be foreign in our culture, but it's something Jesus did, and in fact, just like Peter, it might have been difficult. But on the evening of April 8th, we're going to gather together for a time of worship, devotion, a meal, some foot blessing. I think it's going to be a humbling experience for all of us. But I encourage you to come and start with us. Maybe you should be coming. Listen, I don't be breaking the ice here. I just have convictions I'm working on it. If you want to just come and worship and fellowship, eat and water, you do it with that, too. Don't convince that it's going to be uncomfortable, but I'm more convinced that we'll be able to intentionally feel Jesus being uncomfortable with us.

And when we lay this side of ourselves that keeps us proud, so we lay that for the sides a little bit, and we start to feel Jesus a little bit more. See, Jesus' attitude of his last supper was in direct contrast to that of his disciples, who were recently arguing, if you're used to reading the Gospels, they were recently arguing who was going to, which one among them was going to be the best in the kingdom. And now we're in this room. There was no servant there. And it never occurred to them to wash each other's feet. So Jesus, their rabbi, our Messiah, stood slow to perform the oath. He asked him to sleep. See, I imagine the room was dead somewhere.

Jesus was showing us how we were in this room, as his church, as his bridegroom, as people who would pick up the town and basin when no one else would. As someone who would pick up the town and basin when no one else would. I hope the Spirit has given you some things to wrestle with this week in the world of biblical servanthood.

I want you to ask yourself some of these questions. If you're a note changer, I want you to write them down in front of you. Am I self-serving? Am I using the gift God has given me to only serve myself and my own uses? Am I over-serving? Am I not taking time to make sure my interest and gifts align with God and his will? Am I under-serving? Am I not adequately using the gift God has given me to better the kingdom? And while serving, am I pointing others to Jesus while also allowing you to be faithful to me? It's a biblical servanthood, a transformative discipline that lets the world see Jesus while simultaneously killing us as well. Again, I want you to take that hand out home with you and pray over it. Have the Holy Spirit point out areas you that you should serve.

Areas that you over-serve, maybe. Or maybe even areas that you self-serve and really a lot of them thought. In the Lord's communion this week, I'm going to close with a pretty powerful message in a message 25. It's a very stranger to the world of service. I'm going to start in verse 34. Matthew 27, verse 34. Then the king will say to those on his right, come, you who are blessed by my father. Preparate the kingdom prepared for you from the creation of the world. For I was plentery and sedent. I was thirsty and you gave me a drink. I was a stranger and you invited me into your home. I was naked and you gave me a service. I was drinking and you cared for me. I was in prison and you used to be.

Then no righteous ones will say, for when could we ever see you hungry or feed you? Or thirst when we give you something to trade? Or to strain through, to ensure you have to come out of you? Or naked and give you clear? When did we ever see you fixed? Or in prison and visit you? And the king will say, I'll tell you the truth. When you gave it to the least of these land, brothers and sisters, you gave it to me. Somebody. Go in peace, please. Thank you guys. That's me. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. Thank you.
