A SUMMER'S JOURNEY: Perserverance
2024-07-22
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Gy6BQapFe0

Well, good morning, everyone. How are we doing today? I think, man, what a wake-up call this Sunday. I mean, confession, great worship set. I'm just happy to be here with you guys. If you don't know me, if we haven't been introduced, my name is Corey Smith, and I have the privilege of being on the teaching team here at Canvas Community. So it's my privilege to be able to bring you the message this morning. So we're kind of in our home stretch of our summer series, a summer's journey, and that kind of follows the life and teachings of the Apostle Paul. Has anyone else this summer, like, dramatically flown by? Like, in my mind, we're in April, and we're, like, in August already. But here we are, right? So in our later section, if you've kind of guessed,

we've kind of changed gears just a little bit, and we're kind of zeroing in on some of the theological implications of the Apostle Paul's teachings. A couple weeks ago, Ryan preached a great message on unity and what are the negotiables and non-negotiables when it comes to unity within the body of Christ and how we as the church have tended to divide over negotiable things and not necessarily the non-negotiables. Last week, Ryan again brought us a message on church discipline, better called church restoration, where the Apostle Paul taught us and the church of Corinth, right, how to call out sin for what it is, how to do our best to seek it out so that a little yeast doesn't ruin the whole batch. Ultimately, right, it's kind of the crux of that sermon. Ultimately, for the good of the person,

the good of creation, and the good of being reconciled back to Jesus Christ. But today, I want to kind of ask the question, sure, unity, restoration, they sound like good things. But ultimately, why do these things matter? What drives us to unity? What drives us to holiness? And I'll kind of give you my response to that question because I know you're itching to know. But my response to that question of why does unity matter, why does holiness matter, is really encapsulated in one central event. That central event is the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The late Cardinal Basil Hume said this, every parting gives a foretaste of death, every coming together, again, the foretaste of the resurrection. So today, we're going to talk about faithful lives amid the persecution and light and hope of the resurrection.

But first, I want to set the stage, right? That's my MO. Not with historical context. You're welcome. That'll come later. But I want to set the stage in this way. And it's something we do every day. It's something we all do. Most of us probably don't even know we do it. And in fact, we do this in basically every conversation we have, every interaction. It can be the foundation of your highest joys and your deepest sorrows. It's the reasons you make the decisions you make and why you respond the way you do in situations. It's an intensely human thing to do. Is anybody, like, convicted on what, like, do we each have our own little nuance to that? But what I'm talking about, every day and probably every situation, every decision, you and I interpret the reality of our,

we interpret reality through the lens of our worldview. This is how you and I make sense of what's going on. No one, absolutely no one, I would argue, lives life based on the raw factual realities of their lives. But instead, they live life based on the interpretation of those facts and that reality through the lens of their worldview. Two people can come to the exact same situation, the exact same factual reality, and come out with two different conclusions. Our interpretation of reality is really our lens in which we navigate the world. See, we all have lenses. We all interpret reality. That's the first acknowledgement. Am I on? I'm touching on base? Is everybody with me? Okay. I think it's how we make sense of our lives and the situations they're in. In Christianity, we've put a label on it, right?

We've called it faith. But I think there's a misconception floating around that Christians are the only ones who live by faith. And I would argue that everyone does, from the most agnostic or irreligious person to devout Christians, spiritualists, name your flavor. We all live by faith. And what I mean by that is we live our lives driven by our interpretation of reality based on our worldview. That's our faith. Does that make sense? So faith is not something you muster up. Faith is not something that's an intellectual agreement. Faith for everyone is viewing and interpreting the world through a certain lens and then acting upon those situations based on that understanding and worldview. See, faith is an allegiance to something that drives you to act upon that interpretation of reality. So I think Christians aren't different because we live by faith.

Christians are different because of the object of our faith. See, the word faith isn't, it kind of is, but there's root words to the word faith. And it's not something that Christianity or religion made up. It's kind of this mindset where it's a practice and a word that we've used as mankind to help us describe and verbalize the interpretations of situations in light of our worldview. And our worldview as Christians should be categorically centered around one individual. Give me the Sunday school answer. Jesus. And one primary act, the resurrection. So all Christian creeds, doctrines, and religious systems across Christendom rest on this central phenomenon by God stepping into his creation and redeeming what was lost. See, Jesus died on the cross. And that sacrificial gift was an immense thing, right? But Jesus died in his humanity as any of us would.

But, I hope that makes sense for you guys. But through divine mystery of God interacting with his creation, Jesus was brought back bodily in a glorified state three days later. This is the resurrection of Jesus Christ. This is why the teachings of Jesus carry weight. This is why the cross was victorious in its conquest of sin because Jesus arose triumphant over his enemies. And he's back to let the world know how victorious and triumphant he was. And there really are, through today, there's going to be two resurrections I'm talking about. One, Jesus' resurrection, which was that statement of triumphant victory over sin. And two, our eventual resurrection, the one that mirrors our Lord's. And we'll touch on this later, but it's Jesus being the first fruits of the harvest. And the first fruits would have been what you would have dedicated or given to the temple as tithe.

And that belonged to God. And the rest of the harvest was yours. So, Jesus is the first fruits of our resurrection. Jesus' resurrection is the down payment and assurance that the renewal of all creation will follow. This is the theme of my message. Faithful lives amid persecution in the light. And hope of the resurrection. I hope to work through two questions today. That not only have theological application, but also have practical application. One, what is the ultimate Christian hope? And two, what hope is there for change, rescue, transformation, new possibilities within the world of the present? So, for my note takers, write those down. And I want you to think about these as we go through the lesson today. How would you answer these two questions? I know how I would answer them, but I also wrote a three-hour long sermon around them.

I was wondering how gun-shy Ryan had you guys. But seriously, how would we answer these questions? And not just now in our comfortable seats, given Sunday school answers, but in the midst of sorrow, grief, tragedy, death, persecution, how would we answer these questions? And would they be something that we could stand by? So, would our answers to these questions give us faith, right? The interpretation of our worldview to stand in the face of tragedy, persecution, of sorrow, of death. Let's pray together. God, our Father, give us ears to hear and hearts to obey what you would have us take away from this message today, Lord. Let no one hear my words, but hear only your truth within my feeble attempt to deliver it. Give us renewed hope in you as the author and perfecter of our faith.

Give us eyes to see creation through the lens of Jesus in light of the hope of the resurrection. Give us hearts to see people not as enemies, but those in bondage who don't realize they're in bondage. Give us eyes to see each other through the lens of the resurrection, this event that changes our interpretation of the world and of each other. Give us hands that seek to do the will of you, King Jesus. We pray all of this for your glory and our neighbor's good. In Jesus' precious name we pray, amen. Today, our Scripture reading is going to be primarily, I've got a lot of Scripture reading today, primarily out of 1 Corinthians and 1 Thessalonians, but what I really want to do is give a 101, so that we're all on this, a 101 on resurrection.

That way we're all on the same page, we're all hearing the same thing, and we can talk about that later, right? That's why we'll be turning first to the gospel of Luke, more specifically Luke 24. If you'll recall, Luke is the author of the gospel bearing his name. He's also the author of the book of Acts, which we've been going through, remember, one long narrative. In resurrection, you'll see, if you look at it as a one long narrative mindset, from the gospel, from Jesus' birth to the resurrection, to the apostles taking the gospel out to the four corners of the earth, you'll see this as one long narrative, and the linchpin of that is the resurrection. And I'm afraid, here's my fear, and I could be projecting my fear, and I'll fully realize that. My fear is that we've boiled down resurrection to just Easter Sunday.

But this central phenomenon sets the stage for the church going out into all the world. My goal today in this lesson is to renew our eyes on the single event that we should use to set our worldview and to use to interpret the world around us and the events we encounter every single day. Let's read Luke 24 together. On the first morning of the week, very early in the morning, they came to the tomb bringing the spices they had prepared. They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, and they went in but did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were perplexed about this, suddenly two men stood by them in dazzling clothes. So the women were terrified and bowed down to the ground. Why are you looking for the living among the dead?

Asked the men. He is not here, but he is risen. Remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee, saying, This is necessary that the Son of Man be betrayed into the hands of sinful men, be crucified, and rise on the third day. And they remembered his words. Returning from the tomb, they reported all these things to the eleven, and to the rest, Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary, the mother of James, and the other women with them were telling the apostles these things. These words seemed like nonsense to them. They did not believe the women. Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. When he stooped to look in, he saw only the linen clothes. So he went away amazed at what had happened. Now, that same day, two of them were on their way to a village called Emmaus,

which is about seven miles from Jerusalem. Together, they were discussing everything that had taken place. And everything they were discussing and arguing, Jesus came near and began to walk along with them. But they were prevented from recognizing him. Then he asked them, What is this dispute that you're having with each other as you're walking? And they stopped walking and looked discouraged. The one named Cleopas answered him and said, Are you the only visitor in Jerusalem who doesn't know about the things that had happened there in these days? What things? He asked them. Besides all of this, it's the third day since these things happened. Moreover, some women from our group astounded us. They arrived early at the tomb, and they didn't find his body. They came and reported what they had seen of angels who said he was alive.

Some of those who were with us went to the tomb, and they found it as just as the women said. But they didn't see him. And he said to them, How foolish are you, and how slow to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Wasn't it necessary for the Messiah to suffer these things and enter into his glory? Then, beginning with Moses and the prophets, he interpreted for them the things concerning himself and all the Scriptures. And I lost where I was at. Oh, 28. They came near to the village where they were going, and he gave the impression that he was going further. But they urged him, Stay with us because it's almost evening, and now the day is almost over. So he went in to stay with them. It was as he reclined at the table with them,

he took the bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to them. Then their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, but he disappeared from their sight. They said to each other, Weren't our hearts burning within us while he was talking with us on the road and explaining the Scriptures to us? That very hour, they got up and they returned to Jerusalem. They found the eleven and those with them gathered together who said, The Lord has truly been raised and has appeared to Simon. Then they began to describe what had happened on the road and how he was made known to them in the breaking of the bread. As they were saying these things, he himself stood in their midst and he said to them, Peace to you. But they were startled and terrified.

They thought they were seeing a ghost. Why are you troubled? He asked them. And why do doubts arise in your heart? Look at my hands and my feet. That is it. I myself. Touch me and see. Because a ghost does not have flesh and bones as you can see I have. Having said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. But while they were amazed and disbelieved because of their joy, he asked them, Do you guys have anything to eat? So they gave him a piece of broiled fish and he took them and he took it and ate in their presence. He told them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms must be fulfilled.

Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures. And he also said to them, This is what is written. The Messiah will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day. And repentance for forgiveness of sins will be proclaimed in his name to all the nations beginning in Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things. And look, I am sending you what my father has promised. As for you, stay in the city until you are empowered from on high. Then he led them out of the vicinity of Bethany. And lifting up his hands, he blessed them. And while he was blessing them, he left them and was carried up into heaven. After worshiping him, they returned to Jerusalem with great joy. And they were continually in the temple praising God. Now, I'll fully admit, I think the millennials get a bad rap.

Sometimes we deserve it. But we're really good at redefining terms. You other generations have also redefined terms. So let's not get judgy. But let's start here. Let's start at a definition. Resurrection. According to the Britannica Encyclopedia, resurrection means the rising from the dead of a divine or human being who still retains his or her own personhood or individuality, though the body may or may not be changed. See, my fear is, in the Western church, we've made the resurrection of Jesus all spiritual, in a sense. Where we've adopted Greek and Roman philosophy and subconsciously integrated it into our doctrine of resurrection. Where the philosophy of Plato and his theory of the soul and its perceived immortality and pushing that theory out to its conclusion have done more to drive home the pictures of our post-mortem existence

than Jesus' own words. These philosophies lead us to a place where we start to question if Jesus' resurrection was bodily or not. Where we question if our promised resurrection will be bodily or not. See, most Christians today, I fear, never spend time to think through the implications of the resurrection from one Easter season to the next. We remain satisfied with what is at best a distorted version of the great biblical hope. Where we've distorted the idea of heaven and resurrection into things the Bible doesn't articulate. Where pop culture speaks more into our understanding of life after death than the Scriptures do. Where resurrection from the biblical world is this. Jesus was crucified, he died, he was buried in a tomb, and on the third day he arose. Not spiritually, where his body was still there

and his soul was somewhere else, but both physically and spiritually, his whole person. Where the burial linens were neatly wrapped and laid where his body was. So within the biblical world, resurrection in both the Greek, Latin, or other language equivalents was never used to mean life after. Death, resurrection was used to denote a new bodily life after whatever sort of life after death there might be. See, the ancients spoke of resurrection, whether it was to deny it like all pagans did, or to affirm it like some Jews did, they were referring to a two-step narrative in which resurrection, meaning a new bodily life, would be preceded by an interim period of bodily death. When authors like Luke, Matthew, Mark, and John penned the events around the resurrection, when new converts said that Jesus had been risen from the dead,

this is what I think they were saying. Something had happened to him that has happened to nobody else, and that nobody expected to happen. So they weren't talking about Jesus' soul going to ethereal bliss, nor were they saying confusedly that Jesus had somehow become one with his divine nature. See, some Jews even agreed with the pagans who denied any kind of future life, especially a re-embodied one. For my note-takers, if you want to check out the definition of the Sadducees in Mark 12, 18. But other groups fought with the pagans in terms of a glorious though disembodied future for the soul. But most of the first century Jews believed in an eventual resurrection, especially the Pharisees, which get a bad rap, sometimes well-deserved, like the millennials. But which in this group, this is what the Apostle Paul would have learned under.

Resurrection in a biblical sense, where God would be the caretaker of their soul, or in the Greek, their psyche, after death until the last day, where God would give his new people new bodies when he judged and remade the whole world. See, this is what I think Martha assumes Jesus is talking about in their conversation at the tomb of Lazarus in John 14. We start, if you want to turn in your Bibles to John 14, starting in verse 21, Martha says to Jesus, If you had been here, my brother wouldn't have died. Yet, even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Your brother will rise again, Jesus said. Notice the words of Martha here. Martha says to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.

And Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. I am the one that is pointing to. The one who believes in me, even if he dies, will live. See, this is what I think resurrection meant to the first century audience. That there are two parts to life after death. One, which we're really good at remembering as Christians, right? That at death, we are immediately present with the Lord. But the second part is really the crux of my sermon. That's the eventual future that God will reunite body and soul. And I don't want you to miss this. The resurrection means reuniting body and soul. The whole person perfected, glorified the way God always intended us to be. Biblical resurrection. So the heart of this message is to help you navigate the value I see in a resurrection worldview.

Where I see shortcomings, and you guys can write me emails, don't write Ryan. Where I see shortcomings in the we die, we go to heaven argument, I see fulfillment in the resurrection. And where unanswered prayers, where prayers seem unanswered for someone who experiences sickness, pain, or death, or they just die and go to heaven,

resurrection for me is, this is not the end. Poverty, violence, racism, pain, sickness, and death may be a byproduct of a fallen world, but through Jesus' resurrection and our eventual one, all the wrongs of the world will be set right through Jesus. We'll be able to witness and experience God's justice and mercy on full display in a world fully under the reign of King Jesus, where sickness, pain, death are all done away with. And we see the justice of God dissolve those broken things away. I love how N.T. Wright says this, the resurrection declared that Jesus was not the ordinary sort of political king, a rebel leader that some had supposed. He was the leader of a far larger, more radical revolution than anyone had ever supposed. He was inaugurating a new world, a new creation, a new way of being human.

He was forging a way into a new cosmos, a new era, a form of existence hinted at all along, but never before unveiled. Are we tracking together? Are we challenged just a little bit in our thinking? I get nothing. So I'm going to assume that's good. Let's turn now to 1 Corinthians 15. It's one of my favorite chapters in all the Bible. And I agree with Ryan what he said last week. The Corinthian church is a mess. So are we. So why not have hope in the resurrection? 1 Corinthians 15. We'll start at verse 1. Now I want to make clear in your little header there. Resurrection essential to the gospel or something to that effect, depending on your translation. Now I want to make clear for you, brothers and sisters, the gospel I preached to you,

which you received and have taken your stand and by which you are being saved. You hold to the message I preached to you unless you believed in vain. For I passed on to you as the most important of what I received. Remember Ryan's words on unity. These are non-negotiables. That Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. That he was buried and that he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures. That he appeared to Cephas. That's Peter. Then to the 12. Then he appeared to over 500 brothers and sisters at one time. Most of them are still alive, but some have fallen asleep. What Paul's saying is, go check it out. Like, test this claim. Then he appeared to James, to the apostles. And last of all, as one being born at the wrong time, he also appeared to me.

Remember, Paul's kind of referencing back to his road to Damascus experience. And I would even say in Galatians 1, his experience in the Arabian desert being taught by Jesus. Verse 9, for I am the least of the apostles, not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God, I am what I am, and his grace towards me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them. That's a tough claim. Yet not I, but the grace of God that was in me. Whether then it is I or they, so we proclaim, and so you have believed. The header there, resurrection essential to the faith. See, remember the beginning of the sermon, faith being our interpretation of reality. Resurrection is essential to our interpretation of reality when we base the view of the world on Christ's resurrection in our promised one.

Verse 12, now, if Christ is proclaimed as risen from the dead, how can some of you say there is no resurrection of the dead? Remember the biblical definition of resurrection. If there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, then our proclamation is in vain. And so is your faith. If the resurrection is not a good claim, I'm going home. Like, I love you guys. I'd love to hang out. We can do that somewhere else. If not for the resurrection. And if Christ has not been raised, then our proclamation is in vain. And so is your faith. Moreover, we are found to be false witnesses about God because we have testified wrongly that he raised Christ from the dead. Whom he, hypothetically, right?

Whom he did not raise up, if in fact the dead are not raised. For the dead are not raised, then not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless and you are still in your sins. Then, those then who have fallen asleep, those who have fallen asleep in Christ, have also perished. But if we have put our hope in Christ for this life only, we should be more pitied than anybody else. Kind of the next header there. Christ's resurrection guarantees ours. But as it is, Christ has been risen from the dead. He is the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since death came through a man, so the resurrection of the dead also comes through a man. Just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.

But each in his own order. Christ, the first fruits. Afterwards, that is coming those who belong to Christ. Then comes the end. When he hands the kingdom of God, hands the kingdom to God the Father. When he abolishes all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign until he puts all of his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be abolished is death. For God has put everything under his feet. Now when it says everything is put under him, it's obvious that he who puts everything under him is the exception. When everything is subject to Christ, then the Son himself will also be subject to the one who subjected everything to him. And I want you to pay attention to this last part. So that God may be all in all. See, I think the world and pop culture are comfortable with the teachings and life of Jesus.

Sacrificial love, kindness, love for your enemies. Taking care of the poor, the widow, the orphan, right? The world is good with Christians having these beliefs. See, the broken world system is content with dead Jesus. Content with it. See, the system excuses the things he taught as wise or as good practice. But throw in the resurrection. That puts the world system of what power is back into the hands of Jesus. So the world does not like the teachings of a risen King Jesus. The world does not like the teachings of a risen Lord where power is returned to him.

So that because the teachings of a resurrected Lord who beat death turns that worldly power dynamic upside down. All power is then given to Lord Jesus as Lord and King of the cosmos. And it's the responsibility then of his followers to live into that power. Romans 8, 11, which we read this morning in worship as he read it for us. The spirit of God who raised Jesus from the dead lives in you. And just as God raised Christ Jesus from the dead, he will give life to your mortal bodies by the same spirit living within you. With the resurrection as our lens to interpret reality, we can now see how God stepped into his good creation, taught us to be a holy people, set apart, caring for the poor, the widows, the orphans, loving our enemies.

Because the power dynamic of the status quo was turned upside down by Jesus and sealed in the resurrection and the ascension. The resurrection and ascension promises us the same resurrection that Jesus experienced ultimately for God's own glory and like we just read so that he might be all in all as we just read. Now that we've built this sort of framework, we can now jump into more practical theology, which is usually the place to be. In kind of the heart of my message, faithful lives amid the persecution and the light and hope of the resurrection. Dave, if we can put that first one up, I think I put parentheses around persecution. Maybe. Oh, I'm throwing them off now. No pressure, just putting you on the spot. While they do that, I want to talk to you about that and why that persecution is in parentheses.

And back to the beginning of my sentence, I want you to put in there whatever you're struggling with. Faithful lives amid death, faithful lives amid sorrow, faithful lives amid tragedy, faithful lives amid poverty, racism. Any sin under the sun or problems, put that in there. What is your worldview around Jesus? And you guys have heard me pump up my small group from the stage before. This time will be no different. You guys are really serious about growing in your faith and Christian community. I love my small group. I encourage you guys to seek one out. Ken's in the back. Ken, if you guys are looking to get connected into a small group, see Ken Sander. He does a great job of organizing that and can point you to one that fits your schedule, all that stuff.

But also, I think we've got small groups on the website. You can kind of look in, breeze, peruse at your own time. But look into those. I love mine. Anyway, I digress. Faithful lives amid persecution in the light and hope of the resurrection. So in between practicing the way series as a group, we decided to do a, we as a small group decided to do a Bible study on 1st and 2nd Thessalonians. So every week, we would read one chapter, starting in 1st Thessalonians, 4th and 2nd. We would read one chapter of Thessalonians together. And we'd discuss it as a group. Our discussions would include the, excuse me, the history of Thessalonica, the place, the people, practical things we could glean from the text, Dave Ballinger and I arguing about eschatology, different views on hell.

You know, the shallow, pedantic things that Christians are known for discussing at small group. See, amid these great discussions the last couple of months, I think the one thing that we noticed at some level or another was the faithfulness of the Christians at Thessalonica. As you read the text, as you read the text, I want you to keep these things in mind. This idea of interpretation of reality with the worldview being the resurrection that we just talked about. So let's jump into 1st Thessalonians 1, 2 through 10. And I've got to hurry up. We thank God for you always, making mention of you constantly in our prayers. Verse 3. We recall in the presence of God, our Father, your work produced by faith, your labor motivated by love, and your endurance inspired by your hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.

For we know, brothers and sisters loved by God, that he has chosen you. Because our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power, in the Holy Spirit, and with full assurance. We know how we lived among you for your benefit, and you yourselves became imitators of us and of the Lord, when in spite of severe persecution, you welcomed the message with joy from the Holy Spirit. As a result, you became the example to all believers in Macedonia and Achaia. For the word of the Lord rang out from you, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but in every place that your faith in God has gone out. There, therefore, we don't need to say anything. For they themselves report of what kind of reception we had from you, how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God,

and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus, who rescues us from the coming wrath. First thing, then we'll jump immediately into 1 Thessalonians 2, 13 through 14. This is why we constantly thank God, because when you received the word of God that you heard from us, you welcomed it not as a human message, but as it truly is the word of God, which also work effectively in you who believe. 14, for you, brothers and sisters, became imitators of God's churches in Christ Jesus that are in Judea, since you also suffered the same things from your people of your own country, just as they did from the Jews. Now, context time. I want to do a quick context for you guys. Thessalonica, now Thessaloniki. I had to look up the Alexa this morning to make sure I was saying that right.

Thessaloniki sits right next to the Aegean Sea. I thought the Holmeses had been there, and Tara informed me they had not been specifically to Thessaloniki. But I can give you a Google geography course on it if you need to. But these Greek converts, right, they were in the modern-day Greece. These Greek converts within the church are not like Paul and Timothy, right? They don't come with a background of Old Testament Scriptures, years of theological teachings being poured over them. They have little to no Jewish understanding of the Old Testament and the promises of God through Israel, leading to the Messiah, the Savior of the world. What the inhabitants of Thessalonica probably had contextually was a pagan understanding of the Greek gods, some Roman gods, and maybe some whispers or hearsay of other cultural deities, and even some pagan philosophies around where they went when they died, right?

The Summerlands or the fields of Elysium or what have you. But here come Paul and Timothy, empowered by the Holy Spirit, preaching this good news that this Jesus, who claimed to be the son of the one true God, was murdered by the Jewish elites and the Romans and was resurrected, and who has ascended to the throne of the cosmos, heaven, and is now Lord and creator, Lord over all creation. See, news of the resurrection had surely began to spread across the empire. And here come these men testifying to its validity. This is a new lens for the Gentile world, this ultimate being, Yahweh, this creator of heaven and earth, came down from his place of honor. He came in human form, was tempted in every way that we are, and taught us how to fully embody our image-bearing qualities to represent him as our creator.

He was beaten and crucified by the Roman Empire, declaring victory over sin in the grave, was resurrected, declaring triumph for all humanity to witness before ascending back to the throne of heaven for his apprentices to now carry out his work who are promised the same resurrection as their Savior and Lord when he returns to finally recombine heaven and earth. I love the way Tim Keller puts this. If Jesus rose from the dead, then you have to accept all that he said. If he didn't rise from the dead, then why worry about anything, he said. The issue on which everything hangs is not whether or not you like the teachings, his teachings, but whether or not he rose from the dead. See, this, I think, is the worldview of the Thessalonian Christians. If what this Paul and Timothy, what they are saying is true,

we want to be on the side of this resurrected Lord, the one who sets in motion this revolution of man and God sealed its validity in the resurrection. But in the same way we can have faith, does that faith remain when we are plagued with grief, sorrow, tragedy, right? The church at Thessalonica is no different than we are today. How do we handle those things when we're plagued with grief, sorrow, and tragedy? Let's remember, we're only reading one side of the exchange here, right? We don't have the Thessalonians' letter to Paul. We only have Paul's letter to the Thessalonians. Paul's correspondence back to the church, it's historically safe to say that Paul's gone about three weeks after he left Thessalonica, and he's writing this letter back to him. And it's unique that he's writing this letter three weeks after he left,

and they're asking, hey, a bunch of people died, how do we handle this? So the church experiencing so many deaths in so short amount of a time was probably due to the persecution the church was facing. And the church is asking Paul, how do we deal with the loss of our brothers and sisters? Paul responds with 1 Thessalonians 4. Have hope. But not this generic optimism kind of hope. Hope in light of the resurrection. Let's read 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 through 18. We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers and sisters, concerning those who are asleep, so that you will not grieve like the rest who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, in the same way through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep.

For we say this to you by a word of the Lord. We who are alive at the Lord's coming will certainly not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout and with the archangel's voice and with the trumpet of God and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are still alive who are left will be caught together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore, encourage one another with these words. See, death is a reality of life, right? How are we viewing death? The Apostle Paul says to the grieving Thessalonians, we need not grieve like those who have no hope. So there's an important distinction here that I want to talk about

because I think we as the church need to talk about before, we need to talk about how to interpret our realities before we're in the midst of that reality. Does that make sense? We disciple before problems arise so that we know and are confident how to handle those. I'd rather work through the nuance of a worldview now instead of trying to work through the nuance of a certain worldview with someone in the midst of grief and tragedy. Does that make sense? I think we're really good at trying to disciple somebody in the midst of tragedy, and that's, I don't think, the time to do that. If you are in the midst of grief and tragedy right now, I apologize. My heart goes out to you. I know what that feels like. Jesus knows what that feels like.

And I'd love to pray with you after service if you're so called to that. But Paul says, we need not grieve like the rest who have no hope. There's an important distinction here. And I've heard this talked about from the pulpit, and you won't hear it from me unless the Lord calls me to repentance. But it's the phrase, don't grieve. But that's the temptation though, right? Paul doesn't say don't grieve. And I've heard, I'm sure, well-intentioned pastors say, don't cry for them, they're rejoicing with Jesus. In an attempt to help someone through their loss or a way to comfort someone. But I'm gonna stand by this statement again unless Jesus calls me repentance. Grieve. Grieve the loss of a loved one, a grandparent, a child, a friend. Grieve that loss. It's okay. You're not somehow less of a Christian if you grieve.

And I believe God grieves with us. Back to John 11 where Martha testifies to the resurrection in verse 35, Jesus weeps over his friend Lazarus. Not because Jesus didn't have faith. Not because Jesus didn't have hope in the resurrection. He is the resurrection. So I believe Jesus weeps with us when tragedy strikes. Jesus weeps with us when we lose a loved one because as creator, as God, he mourns with us because his creation was never supposed to experience this kind of hurt. So the world has language around death that's final. Phrases like died, passing away, no longer with us. There's finality to that language. An end. A missing piece. There's finality to a world without the hope of Jesus. The ultimate Christian hope continues. And it uses language that does not give death the power it does not deserve.

Death is an enemy of God, according to Paul. And it does not deserve power, respect, or authority. So Jesus told his listeners in Luke 8, 52, the child's not dead. She's only sleeping. Well, Jesus, I mean, Jesus was mocked by the onlookers when he said this because, like, let's face it, right? Death is not that difficult to understand. And they're like, this Jewish rabbi doesn't know what death is. But I think Jesus, see, Jesus uses this unique term, and Paul adopts it, this idea of sleep. What I think Jesus and the later apostle Paul are doing is not giving death the power or respect it does not deserve. Now, let's unpack this a little bit. What happens eventually after you sleep? You wake up. You are on it. Let's look back at 1 Corinthians 15, starting in verse 50.

What I'm saying, brothers and sisters, is this. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor can corruption inherit incorruption. Listen, I am telling you a mystery. We will not all fall asleep, but we will all be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed. For this corruptible body must be clothed with incorruptibility, and this mortal body must be clothed with immortality. When this corruptible body is clothed with incorruptibility, and this mortal body is clothed with immortality, then the saying that is written will take place. Death has been swallowed up in victory. Where death is your victory, where grave is your sting. Folks, don't hear self-righteousness from me. I don't have all the answers to life's questions.

What I do have is hope, and that's what I want for you guys too, and that's the reason for my message. This apprenticeship under King Jesus isn't about being the best moral person in the room, or a holier-than-thou person. If you're thinking that, you've missed the gospel. And I'd love to, this is the gospel, that Jesus is Lord. Let me tell you this, that Jesus Christ didn't come to make bad people good. He came to make dead people alive. See, humanity in the fall of the garden is slipping into oblivion, and Jesus came that he might reclaim us as his beloved creation back into life. Both the abundant life now, having this hope in Jesus' promises and these things not seen, and an eternal life later where we bask in his new creation and new bodies,

where we can experience God to the fullest extent imaginable. We have never experienced someone too far gone for Jesus. He, as the most loving father we could ever know, throws a celebration when we return to him. He desires his creation to commune with him. And this death that we've been experiencing as a people, this is a byproduct of our rebellion. His desire is that we all come back, not to a father who's condescending and is ready to berate us at the door, but one who with tear-filled eyes welcomes us home and weeps with us as we experience the hurt that sin has caused his creation. And he's asked us to partner with him to wipe it from the face of the earth. Revelation 21, 3-5 says, Look, God's dwelling place is with humanity. And he will live with them and they will be his people,

and God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe every tear from their eye. Death will no longer exist. Grief, crying, pain will no longer exist because the previous things have passed away. There's that language around finality, right? Grief, crying, and pain are passing away. So then the one seated on the throne said, Look, I am making everything new. I came across this poem during my ordination studies, and it's something that impacted me, and I'd like to share it with you guys today. It's like 19th century German, so bear with me. Not German. I can't read to it in German, but it's kind of the old English. T'was by thy darts I am slain. Or death, thou hast conquered me. T'was by thy darts I am slain. But Christ shall conquer thee, and I shall rise again.

Time hastens on the hour. The just shall rise and sing. O grave, where is your power? O death, where is your sting? See, resurrection is the Christian hope. Jesus was the first fruits of that resurrection, and he promises us the same. John 6, 39 through 40 says, This is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose none of those that he has given me, but should raise them up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in him will have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. If you're questioning this, won't you humble yourself before the Creator and King today? Are you tired of doing life on your own? Tired of lacking hope of what's to come?

Let me reassure you with something. You were never meant to do this alone. Jesus is here, and I confidently claim that Jesus is Lord of everything. The resurrection proved that Jesus is reliable in the things he said and his promises. He's the Father who loves his children more than you can imagine. Revelation 3, 20 echoes this point. I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him and he with me. Are we tired of not having hope for tomorrow? Jesus, he is our hope. I got a quote from John Piper that I thought encapsulated the worldview idea. It says, few people seem to realize that the resurrection of Jesus is the cornerstone to a worldview that provides the perspective to all of life.

Now, the two questions that we started with. Hopefully, you have some interpretative tools to help you answer these. What is the ultimate Christian hope? How would you answer this? And two, what hope is there for change, rescue, transformation, and new possibilities within the world of the present? I'm going to answer these from my perspective. But you guys can probably guess them from my sermon. The ultimate Christian hope for me is the resurrection. Both in Jesus' resurrection and future promised resurrection, where we live glorified with God in new heavens, new earth. Even when I feel like my world is crumbling and around me, viewing and interpreting my realities through the lens of the resurrection helps me cope and I think helps me better understand the heart of God for his creation. And question two, what hope is there for change, rescue, and transformation, and new possibilities within the world of the present?

And I'll quote somebody that has far more clout than me in this. St. Augustine does a fabulous job of answering it. The joyful news that he is risen does not change the contemporary world. Still before us lies work, discipline, and sacrifice. But the fact of the resurrection gives us the spiritual power to do the work, accept the discipline, and make the sacrifice. So this week, I'd like to end, I'd like to close with communion. And hopefully you grabbed a cup, the miracle meal, on your way in. If not, I'll give you a couple seconds to grab one. These are easier to open. Maybe, I might have spoke too soon. As you guys find your way to the communion table, I'd like to talk a little bit about this today. In the same way the travelers on the road to Emmaus didn't see Jesus until he blessed the bread and broke it,

we practice open communion. If you have not recognized the risen Savior, today is a great day to do that. May Christ show himself to you in the broken bread as we bless it. This bread represents his body broken for you. He is more than a political, he is the king of more than a political or ideological kingdom. He is king of all creation, the whole world. If you have submitted your life to the risen Savior, I encourage you to examine your life and worldview. Are we viewing this world as resurrection promised people? Will we have no fear of the world around us because our king has been raised victorious over death? If you have communion and so choose, let's open those together and partake of the bread together. Christ's body broken for us.

In the same way, Christ's blood was spilt for us. So we drink the juice, remembering his sacrifice, but celebrating the promises that lie ahead. Christ's blood spilt for you.

I'd like to close this week with a benediction from the apostle Peter, found in 1 Peter 1, 3-9. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because of his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead and into an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. Kept in heaven for you. You are being guarded by God's power through faith for a salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. You rejoice in this, even though for a short time, if necessary, you suffer grief in various trials so that the proven character of your faith, more valuable than gold, which though perishable, is refined by fire, may result in praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.

Amen. Go in peace, church. Can I take a picture of that phrase? Because I was writing it down, and you changed it. I need to take a picture of that phrase. Can you see some of the real eyes? Oh, yeah. John Piper's? Also, I wrote this one down.
