A SUMMER'S JOURNEY: Proclaim the Good News to your Family!
2024-06-10
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MbNgI-DSay4

Good morning everyone, I feel like I actually don't even need to be up here after the morning that we just had, because that was incredible, and I feel like we've already heard so much from the Lord, but I worked really hard on this, so you're stuck with me for a little bit, yeah, I did, so I am super humbled and excited to get to talk to you in this series where we're looking at the life of Paul, he is one of my favorite apostles to study, just because he was so real, and he messed up, my watch was talking to me, he messed up in a really, really big way, and God shows up for him in a really big way, so before we get started, let's pray together one more time. Dear Heavenly Father, make my words your words, make my thoughts your thoughts, God, we've

already seen you so much this morning, you have shown up in a big way, God, and I want to be able to continue that, God, that we can be filled with your peace and your freedom and your love that only you can give, that nothing in this world can give, God, so I pray that those are my words this morning, and that we can all find our peace and freedom in you, amen. So just to give you a little recap, we're talking about Paul, we missed one message because Ryan had to go and throw up, and so I'm just going to fill you in a little bit, but basically Paul was born to a devout Jewish family, so he was born believing that the way that you get close to God is through rules and regulations and lighting incense and doing all these specific steps,

and he believed that that was the way to God. He says in Acts 23, "I am a Pharisee, son of a Pharisee." Scholars don't know if he actually was the son of a Pharisee or if this was just a saying, but regardless, his view of God is very different than the view of God that we see with Jesus when he comes, and so Paul does not believe that Jesus is who he said he was. Paul was probably two or three years younger than Jesus, so he was around for the whole ministry of Jesus, but he doesn't believe that Jesus was being honest when he calls himself the Messiah, to the point that Paul goes on a mission to try to end what followers of the way were preaching that Jesus was the Messiah, and he is actually

responsible for the very first martyr of Christianity, Stephen. And so he thinks he's doing the right thing. He thinks he is fulfilling what God would have him do because this Jesus is a liar and he's not who he says he was. So fast forward, we find him on the road to Damascus. He is on his way to the town of Damascus to persecute more Christians, probably put more to death, definitely throw them in prison, and he has an encounter with Jesus that will change his life. He hears the voice of God loud from the sky all around him, and Jesus says, Paul or Saul at that time, interchangeable names, we've been through that. Why are you persecuting me? He had to have been like, first of all, he said, who are you? And then I'm persecuting you? Like he thought he was defending the Old Testament,

and here he's being told by God, you're persecuting me. And he says, I'm Jesus. I'm the one that you've been persecuting. And in that moment, his whole life changes. He realizes that he was wrong. He actually goes to Damascus, goes to the temple, does a few days of telling people what just happened to him, and then he goes away for three years to Arabia, and he tries to figure out, well, he does figure out, what did I get wrong? How was this Jesus, the fulfillment of the Messianic prophecy? And he dives into Scripture, and he, more importantly, develops a relationship with Jesus that he never had before. He thought it was about rules and regulations. He finds out in this time that he was wrong, that it is about a relationship, that it is about the love of Christ, and he gets closer and closer to Jesus at

this time. These three years are huge for him, because this is when he falls in love with Jesus, and to be accepted into this family, even though he screwed up big time. So then we fast forward to Acts 16, which is what I get to talk to you about today. This is AD 49. So Paul has been preaching the gospel for 15 years now. So this is 15 years after the Red Damascus, and he has lived through exile. He was stoned to the point that they left him outside of a city to die. He has seen miracles. His walk with Jesus has gotten so much stronger than he was before. But what makes him so good at what he does, and what allows people to listen to him, is his humility. Paul says in 1 Timothy 1:15, "Here is a trustworthy

saying that deserves full acceptance: Jesus Christ came into this world to save sinners, of whom I am the worst." This is why I love studying him. He does not think he deserves the relationship with Christ that he has. He doesn't think he deserves to be able to go and spend his life witnessing, but he does because of the grace and mercy of Jesus. So he comes across to everybody that he preaches to with humility and saying, "I'm no better than you. Actually, I'm worse. I'm the worst. But Jesus loves me anyway." So let's learn about this Jesus together. So let's get into Acts 16. What's going on is Paul's gone for 15 years, and he's preached to as many people as he can. Well, now he wants to go back and check on those that

he has witnessed to. So he's going back to these towns that beat him, that stoned him, that exiled him, because his goal is to encourage those who have found Jesus and to go back and to check on them. He has a new partner with him. He was with Barnabas, but they have parted ways, and he is now asked Silas to join him. So you'll see Silas on his journeys. His original plan was to go west to the Asian province. But Acts 16:7 tells us, "When they came to the border of Messiah, they tried to enter Bethena, but the Spirit of Jesus would not let them go." So clearly, Paul is staying close to Jesus, because he can feel the Spirit of Jesus saying, "That's not the direction I have for you to go." His relationship

with him has only grown, and he knows, "If God doesn't want me to go there, I don't want to go there either." So he immediately shifts paths. So where does God want him to go? Well, Paul has a vision that there is a Macedonian man, and he's standing and he's saying, "Come help us. Please come help us." He believes that that's a vision from God, and so he says, "All right guys, we're going to Macedonia." Acts 16:10 says, "Paul had seen the vision. We got ready at once to leave for Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them." If you noticed, it switched from "they" to "us." This is Luke, the author of Acts, and so he is with them on this journey, and now they are going to Macedonia.

Another thing that's important is the people that are with Paul see that he has this tight relationship with Jesus so that they feel trustworthy to follow him. So Paul says, "I saw a vision. We're supposed to go to Macedonia." They're like, "Then we're going to Macedonia." To have people in your life that you trust to that extent is so amazing. That if they say, "I feel like God is telling me this. I feel like God is calling us here." And you can be like, "I know. I've seen your walk with God, and I feel comfortable following you." That's an incredible thing to have in your life, and that's what they have with Paul. The others have developed this trust in Paul, not because of Paul, but the power he has in his walk with Jesus. So they go to Macedonia, and they have what I would call a very

interesting meeting with a demonic spirit. Acts 16 says, "When they are going to the place of prayer, we were met by a female slave who had a spirit by which she predicted the future. She earned a great deal of money for her owners by fortune-telling. She followed Paul and the rest of us, shouting, 'These men are servants of the Most High God who are telling you the way to be saved.'" I find this so interesting that this girl is possessed by a demonic spirit. Her owners are real pumped about this because she's making them money by telling everybody the future. So then we have her following around Paul and Silas, repeating, "These men are servants of the Most High God, and they're telling you the way to be saved." She's predicting the future. Like, she sees that they are certain - well, she

doesn't. The demon inside of her sees that they are followers of Jesus. So you would think this would actually be like a positive thing, right? That people would be like, "She predicted my future, and it was right. Now she's saying this. I kind of want to follow these guys." But when Satan is the one declaring the gospel, nobody wants that. Not only that, but I'm sure that she had sort of like a like a shrill voice that was distracting. This is - I've - I was there. No, I'm just kidding. Um, like distracting them. They're trying to preach grace and mercy, and she's just repeating herself. These guys are servants of the Most High God. They are teaching the way to be saved. And Paul and Silas just get really sick of it. But one thing that I want to stop for a second is, did you notice that

the demons know who Jesus is? James 2 says, "You believe that there is one God, good. Even the demons do and shudder." Is this demon a Christ follower? Not even close. But he knows who he is. So it's something for us to be reminded of. Just because you know that Jesus is God, does not make you a Christ follower. It is the relationship with him. It is allowing him to move throughout you and change you. That's what makes you a Christ follower. And oftentimes I think people will just know. Yeah, I think Jesus is God. That's it. So do the demons. And shout it. And shudder. Satan definitely knows who Jesus is. So we want to make sure that our walk with Jesus doesn't end there. That we allow him to move in us and change us. And we worship him as the King and

kings and Lord and lords of our life. So, Paul and Silas are frustrated with this spirit. Verse 18, "She kept this up for many days. Finally, Paul came, became so annoyed that he turned around and said to the spirit, in the name of Jesus Christ, I command you to come out of her. And at once the spirit left her." Again, Paul's walk with Jesus and his faith is so strong that he does not doubt in the name of Jesus Christ, the spirit's going to go. And that's exactly what happened. Verse 19, "When her owners realized that their hope of making money was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to face the authorities. They brought them before the magistrates and said, 'These men are Jews and are throwing our city into an uproar by advocating customs unlawful for us Romans to accept or practice.' The

crowd joins in the attack against Paul and Silas and the magistrates order them to be stripped and beaten with rods." Stripped naked and beaten with rods in the middle of a crowd. Can you even begin to imagine how humiliating and demeaning that was? You have people that are following Jesus with all of their heart. Jesus said, "Go to Macedonia." And they listened. They followed the voice of God and they find themselves stripped naked and beaten in front of everyone for doing exactly what Jesus called them to do. They had every right to be furious and angry and sad and confused. I would have been. But instead, they realized that the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords called them here and he's got this under control. None of this is surprising God one bit. It's not a crime under Roman law to cast

out demons or to heal someone who's mentally sick. So they had in fact done nothing wrong. They were unjustly punished even by Roman standards. Verse 23, "They had been severely flogged and they were thrown into prison. The jailer was commanded to guard them carefully. And when he received these orders, he put them in the inner cell and fastened their feet in stocks." So Roman prisons had three departments. The first one was called the communioria, which was the light and fresh air. So those criminals who had the the latest defenses, they would have been put in that first cell. Then you have the next cell, which is called the interiora. This was shot off by iron bars and locks. But Paul and Silas were put in the telunium, which was the dungeon where people were put to die. This was top security. And their feet were placed

in stocks, which were heavy pieces of woods with holes, similar, similar to medieval stocks. So these are the stocks that you would have seen, um, something similar to this up off the ground. Their feet would have been locked in here. They have been beaten. They are in excruciating pain and their feet are stuck in this. Can we show the, um, inner cell again? This is what scholars believe to have been the actual cell that Paul and Silas would have found themselves in sitting on a dark floor, miserable, beaten, feet in stocks for doing absolutely nothing wrong. Um, so what do they do? Did they panic? Did they get to the point where like, really, this is what I get for everything that I've done? They don't do that. They actually begin to praise and worship Jesus. Why do they do this? Because they have a relationship with Jesus that they are

constantly reminded that he has been there for me in the good and the bad, and he hasn't left me, and he hasn't left me now, and he isn't going to leave me. They are able to view the world and their circumstances, no matter how bad, through the eyes of Jesus, rather than through the eyes of the world, of this world. Hebrews 13:14 is one of my absolute favorite verses. It says, "For this world is not our permanent home. We are looking forward to a home yet to come." See, Paul and Silas are looking at their better situation with those with that lens. This is not my permanent home. My job here is to fall madly in love with Jesus and allow him to move me, because I know that I'm looking forward to something better that is yet to come. About midnight, so this is verse 25, "Paul and Silas were praying and singing

hymns to God, and the other prisoners were listening to them." So how are they acting in one of their worst days? They are singing and praising God. Like, this is just a normal man. These are just normal men who found the Christ, the one that will bring them eternal salvation, but they're still feeling the pain. They were still humiliated. And yet, while they're sitting in a dark prison, surrounded by prisoners that are probably going to be executed, they may be executed the next morning. They have no idea. Yet, they are taking this moment and singing praises to God. This is not a time for praying and singing unless you have found a peace that passes understanding that you can only find in God. They were worshiping not in hopes that Jesus would set them free. They were worshiping because God had

already set them free. This is not the type of freedom that those other prisoners wanted, right? They wanted out. They were terrified. They would do anything to get past those bars. Paul and Silas had a freedom that can only come through a deep relationship with God. And that freedom, the world can never take away from them. Do you and I focus on this freedom that we have in Christ during our life circumstances? Or do we focus on the thoughts that we have nothing better coming, that this is it? Paul and Silas focus on their freedom. Verse 26, "Suddenly there's a violent earthquake and the foundations of the prison are shaken. At once all the prison doors flew open and everyone's chains came loose." How many of you have ever been in an earthquake? I had like, I was in a little one. Does it make any sense for chains to fall off arms and for

stalks to open? It's not how earthquakes work. Maybe the door would fly open. Maybe. But earthquakes don't take chains off people. This was clearly an act of God and everyone there knew it. Verse 27, "The jailer woke up and when he saw the prison doors open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself because he thought the prisoners had escaped. But Paul shouted, 'Don't harm yourself. We are all here.'" Who did it say was all there? Everyone. Prisoners that were planning to be executed did not run. Why did they not run? Because in the middle of Paul and Silas's worst day, they chose to praise and worship God and others paid attention. If you're sitting in a prison cell and you're going to be executed, the last thing you're thinking about is praying and worshiping to God. But these men did and everyone took notice, including

the other prisoners. They know there's something different about these men. This is not the way you act when you're treated like this, but these men did. So when this earthquake happened, everybody clearly knew this was an act of God and I'm sticking around because this is way more important than what's going on in my life. So why was the jailer going to kill himself? Sleeping while you were supposed to be guarding prisoners in first century AD Roman Empire was a crime and it was punishable by death. So no doubt the jailer assumed the doors are open, the chains are gone, these guys are gone, and I don't want to be put to death by the Roman authorities. So I'm going to do it myself. The jailer called for lights and rushed in and fell trembling before Paul and Silas. He then brought them out and says, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"

What did he call them? Sirs. How quickly did the man who thought he was in charge flip and fall on his feet to the prisoners and call them sirs? Who in this scenario was really in chains and who in this scenario was really free? See, the reality is is we can live in bondage to sin while thinking we are free. This is the best trick that Satan can play on us. How often do we look at our lives and think, "I'm free. I have the money that I needed. I have this house. I have these people that finally love me and accept me." But in reality, we don't even see our chains. If we can be kept under the understanding that we are free when we really aren't, then Satan has us right where he wants us.

Because people don't try to get out of chains if they don't know that they're wearing them. These jailers had no idea that they were imprisoning people that were actually free when he himself were in change. But in this moment, he gets it. Because Paul and Silas chose to worship and sing in their darkest moment. So what does true freedom look like? Truly. Think about that. What would it be like to feel free? Is it having enough money? Having a big house? Is it being athletic? Is it having the right friends? Ask anybody who's gotten to the pinnacle of all of those things if it brought them true freedom? And their answer will be no. How often do we hear of movie stars that have all the money and all the fame committing suicide or turning to drugs or turning to partying and just

losing everything that they have? Because when you get to what you think is going to bring you freedom and it doesn't, there's nowhere else to turn. These men were in the darkest cell in the Roman prison. They were naked. They had been beaten. They were in excruciating pain, yet they had freedom that made absolutely no sense. True freedom looks like this. It means looking at your circumstances in the light of Jesus in every scenario. When you look at your circumstances through the eyes of Jesus, everything shifts. You see things differently than the rest of the world sees them. This freedom that Christ gives us when we look through his eyes is not something that we were called to keep to ourselves. It's something that Christ has begged us to share with others because he doesn't want anyone to live in this bondage. My friend Sam Rogers, who is the pastor of Hope Valley

Church, has a quote that I had to share with you. It says, "We are called to bring freedom to people who cannot see their own chains." And that's what they did. We're not called to judge them. We're not called to make fun of them. We're not called to think we're better than them. We are called to view them through the eyes of Jesus, which is I love them. I see that they're struggling and I want to remove the chains that they don't even know that they have. That's how Jesus sees us. That's how Jesus saw Paul on the road to Damascus. He saw a man that was responsible for the first martyr. He loves Stephen. Stephen was stoned because Paul said, "This man deserves to die." And what did Jesus see in Paul? He did not see

somebody that he wanted to turn his back on and never forgive. He saw somebody that was in chains that didn't know that they were holding and he wanted to set them free. And so this is how Paul sees others. Is this how we see others? Because oftentimes it's the opposite of how we see others. One thing that I was a little confused on is how did his family get to the jail? Scholars believe that they probably felt the earthquake and came to check on their father, their family member. And when they cut down there, instead of seeing their dad, honestly, had Paul and Silas not worshiped, they would have seen their dad dead on the ground or husband or uncle or whatever it was. But what they see is him on his hands and knees listening to every

word that these prisoners are telling him. What if Paul and Silas had gotten angry like they had every right to do and been sitting in that cell fuming? What if they were sad and depressed and sat there crying? I probably would have sat there crying and viewed their circumstances the way that everybody else would have. I can tell you that the prisoners, when that earthquake happened, they would have bolted because those guys were no different than them and they would have ran. That means that the jailer would have killed himself because he knew that he was going to be executed and the jailer in his entire family never would have heard the word of God. Not only that, but these prisoners' lives would have never been able to be changed. How many times do we view our circumstances through the lens of the

world rather than through the eyes of Jesus and we miss an opportunity to show Jesus to others? Probably multiple times a day. See, that's what sets somebody apart who has a true relationship with Christ is how they handle life circumstances that don't go the way that they are. And just as a reminder, if we do it wrong and we view them the way that the world views them, God just graciously loves us and takes us back into his fold. It's just that we may be missing an opportunity to share the love of Christ to others. So let's look at verse 33. At that hour of the night, the jailer took them and washed their wounds and immediately he and his household were baptized. The jailer brought them into his house and set a meal before them. He was filled with joy because he and his whole household. What's the first thing the jailer wanted

to do when he met Jesus? He wanted to share it with his family because nothing would ever be more important than that moment. He saw there's something better in this world and I just found it. You guys need to know. I don't know what the repercussions of a Roman guard becoming a Christian would have been at this time. I know in the very least, his social status would have went down and he could have been potentially executed for this new walk with Jesus and turn in. But none of that mattered. Even if his family was going to lose their lives, what was more important to him in that moment was not to keep his social status, to keep his job, to protect their lives. It was, I just met the savior and nothing else is more important than that.

Parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, mentors, do you live a life that shows those that are under you that the most important number one priority is your walk with Jesus? Truly, is that how you live your life? If not, ask yourself what you're putting first to them. Is it career? Is it sports? Is it money? Is it popularity? What is it that you are showing your children, those that you mentor, is the most important thing? Because they're paying attention. Just like those prisoners in the cell were paying attention to Paul and Silas, they're watching you. And you were leading them into an adulthood that shows them this is the most important thing. Is it chains that they're just going to carry with them? Or is it the freedom that only Christ can give? Again, I want to show you the quote from Sam

Rogers. We are called to bring freedom to people who cannot see their own chains. Do you want those around you? Do you want yourself? Do you want your children to have true freedom or to remain in the bondage of this world and to Satan? If your answer is true freedom, are you raising them that way?

How do you give them true freedom? How did Paul give true freedom? Through no longer seeing people with natural eyes, seeing them through the lens of Jesus. People are going to hurt us all the time, literally, constantly, just when you're like, all right, things are going good. Someone says or does something that just crushes you? And you have an opportunity to make a choice. Am I going to view this person and this situation through my eyes or through the lens of Jesus? Through the lens of Jesus tells us they are children of God. He loves them just as much as he loves us, which is hard to believe when someone has hurt us hurt you so deeply. But he does. And do we forgive them and walk forward because that's what Jesus does to us over and over again? Sometimes that means walking away from a relationship in the love of

Jesus, but it means shifting your focus on how you see them and you allow yourself and your children to see them differently. Paul and Silas could have walked out of that prison and said, I told you, I told you that there was a God and you're wrong. See you later. But they would have, but Paul didn't do this because he was reminded of how Jesus saw him on the road to Damascus and the grace and forgiveness that he received. Another question I have for you as you're mentoring and leading your family, as this is a family Sunday, is what is your relationship with Christ like? Is it the number one priority in your life? Because your children are watching. Or Paul and Silas, I talked over and over and over again about how he spent three years studying the Scriptures. He spent 15 years up until this point,

witnessing and sharing Christ and learning about God and just growing, growing closer so that when others around him saw him, they saw Jesus. Do those that we are mentoring or raising, do they see Jesus in us or do they just see another fallen person of this world? Your relationship with Jesus is going to spill over into your relationship with everyone else. For the good or the bad. If you have no relationship with Jesus, it's going to spill over. You're going to be in chains like the rest of the world. If you have a close relationship where you go to him for everything and you view the world through his eyes, your children are going to see that. That's what gives them the freedom that this world doesn't want them to have. And the last thing is, do you practice what you preach? The most effective

way for you to teach is through your actions. Paul says in first Corinthians 11:1, "Imitate me as I imitate Christ." That's a tall order. That is not something that I would be comfortable by saying, "Imitate me as I imitate Christ." Yet, that's what we're called to do. Is your walk with Jesus so strong that when others see how you're reacting, they see Christ? Tall order. But it's not something that we can just dismiss as, "Nope, I could never do that." He's calling us to do that. So I want to give you, in closing, a practical application just this week to give this a try as you are growing closer with Jesus. Remember when we used to write letters back in the old days and at the end you would put PS, postscript. So think of the letters PS. Pause and shift. So when you are thinking about someone,

someone makes you mad and you're viewing them, I want you to pause your thoughts immediately. When you get that nudge from the Holy Spirit being like, "I don't think that's how I would act. I actually really love that person." Pause your thoughts in that moment and shift them to the way that Jesus would view them. This is an act that is going to take time. It's going to take repetition. Every time you are doing something that you get that nudge of Jesus saying, "That's not the path that I want you to take. Those aren't the words that I want you to say. That's not the reaction that I want you to have. I want you to view this through the eyes of Jesus and have freedom." Pause in that moment. Stop those thoughts. Stop those words and shift. And if it means apologizing to someone for what you've done in

the past so that you can feel that freedom of, "Okay, I'm following Jesus. I'm making it right." Pause and shift and go back to that person and apologize. Whatever you can do to take away the chains that Satan so desperately wants to keep on you, do it. Because the true freedom that we find in Christ is nothing like we've ever experienced before. It's the peace that passes understanding. It's the ability to look at your life and say, "It's okay because Jesus still has me in the palm of his hands." No matter what. And this world is not my permanent home. I am waiting for something better yet to come. Do we live like that or do we live in bondage and chains like the rest of the world? And are we raising our children to view this world through the eyes of Jesus? Are we raising them to view this world

through the worldly lens that everyone else does? Because if we are, then we're raising them to live in chains and bondage that they won't know they had because they were raised by a loving Christian parent that kept them in chains. I don't know about you, but I want desperately to be in the freedom of Christ myself and to give that freedom to my children and to be the person that handles situations differently so that others notice and turn to Jesus. Because this world is short, but we're looking forward to something so much greater yet to come. Let's pray together. Dear Heavenly Father, Father, I just thank you for giving us freedom. I thank you, God, that you love us so much that you brought us out of this world and are allowing us to have a relationship with you and walk with you

every day on this earth. God, give us the freedom that you want us to have. God, I pray that this week we are able to pause the thoughts that you don't want us to have and to pause the words that you don't want us to say and to shift back to you, to shift back to the way you see this world and you love those that we get so frustrated with. And God, I pray that our children will see it and those that are around us will see it and they will find you and that freedom that only you can bring. In Jesus' name
