A SUMMER'S JOURNEY: Future Salvation
2024-08-19
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7z_-oNd47XY

Well, good morning, church. Hope you guys are having a good morning so far. Praise the Lord. If you haven't had the privilege, if I haven't had the privilege of meeting you, it is not a privilege to meet me. I'm sorry. Maybe that was a Freudian slip. I don't know what's going on on there. But if we haven't had the privilege of meeting, my name is Ryan, and I have the privilege of being one of the pastors here. Next weekend, we are going to be wrapping up this very long summer series called The Summer's Journey, where we've been looking at the life, teaching, ministry, and letters of the Apostle Paul. I hope that this series has helped you in your faith journey. I hope we've learned some things about Paul's life and his ministry that will help us

better understand his letters in their context. Reading the Bible in its proper context and applying it to our proper context can be a challenging task. I hope this has been helpful. I hope you've seen the importance of approaching Paul's letters as primarily, primarily his letters were pastoral, encouragements, challenges to specific groups of people and specific individuals, people who were struggling, rather than these theological books that were written specifically for us to build our theology off of. Our theology should be built off of the application of what he was intending to communicate to his original audience and worked backwards from there. And most, many theological camps claim to do this, but it can be harder than it looks. And so hopefully we've learned some of that throughout this series. Today, we're gonna finish up a three-week kind of mini-series

we did within this series on Paul and how Paul talks about salvation in three tenses. Paul talks about salvation in the past tense, in the present tense, in the future tense. And he says that we were saved, we are being saved, and we will be saved. The illustration I used a couple weeks ago was that of adoption, right? There's a moment in time when someone is adopted in the past. It's a legal binding decision. They've been adopted. And in the present, they're learning how to live in this new family with new kind of systems and structures. And then they will have a future inheritance as a member of that family. Last week, Nick used a similar illustration about the nation of Israel through the Exodus, right? Nick said there was a past salvation from their slavery in Egypt.

And then there was a present salvation in the desert. They were being saved from slavery. And then their future salvation was that of inheriting the promised land as they crossed into the Jordan. So that's kind of the three-week structure that we've been following. All three tenses of salvation are important to Paul. But if you missed the last two weeks, I've got good news for you. The future tense salvation is Paul's emphasis throughout all of his writings. It is the focal point of salvation, of the salvation narrative. For Paul, it is in the future. Dr. Brenda Colleen says it this way, salvation for Paul is predominantly future. So you picked the right week to be here. All right, let's pray and get started. Father, we are so grateful for this opportunity to think about what salvation means for Paul

and therefore what implications it has on our lives. God, I know that we all come in here with different worries and fears and anxieties and confusion and doubts and questions and unbelief. Wherever we might be in the room this morning, I pray that through your Holy Spirit and your word, you would communicate exactly what you want us to hear, that we would just be in an open posture to hear from you, that your words would encourage and challenge and draw us into a closer relationship with you for your glory, for our good, and for the good of our neighbors. It's in Jesus' name I pray, amen. Okay, I am gonna step out on what I think is a very sturdy limb this morning and say that every single one of us in this room has experienced suffering.

Is that a fair statement? Every single one of us in this room has faced suffering. Many of us in this room this morning are currently dealing with suffering. We're struggling through a difficult situation or circumstance in our life. And if we personally aren't struggling, we are probably in close relational proximity to someone who is struggling or suffering. We've all experienced suffering. It's a regular occurrence on life. On life, what am I looking to say there? In life on earth, there we go. And for those of us who have even had a relatively smooth life, who have escaped much possibility and opportunity for suffering, even if we've had a relatively comfortable life, we know that deep down, in the good times, in the best times, they don't truly fulfill us or satisfy us to the longings of our heart.

C.S. Lewis summarizes this in his chapter on hope and mere Christianity when he says, no, I'm summarizing C.S. Lewis, so it's gonna sound less smart than C.S. Lewis said it, but he says, no relationship, no vacation, he says holiday because he's British, no hobby, no career, it will never satisfy you the way that you hope it might. And he goes on to say, and this is the part, the cheeky part that I really love, he says, and I'm talking about the best possible ones. He's not talking about bad marriages, bad vacations, bad hobbies, difficult careers. He's saying, even in the best of circumstances in life on earth, they often leave us wanting. I'm getting ready to go on vacation, and I already know that about two days into vacation, you know what I'm gonna be thinking about?

It ending. I'm gonna be thinking about vacation ending, like there's so much time to enjoy the vacation, and I am going to be thinking about it ending because there is no vacation, no career, no hobby, no relationship that will satisfy the deepest longings of our soul. Suffering, our lives are full of it from one degree or another, and even when we avoid it, the good times still leaving us, leave us feeling wanted. Let's pray and go home. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. But I think this is why Paul tends to focus on future tense salvation when he talks about salvation because in my opinion, and I think in Paul's opinion, future salvation, a proper understanding of future salvation is the only medicine for our present sufferings. This is where we're gonna be in Romans chapter eight,

so if you have your Bibles and you wanna go there, one of Paul's most glorious texts on the future salvation, he says this, Romans eight, verse 18, I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us in the future. I consider that our present sufferings are not worthy to be compared to the future glory that will be revealed. This verse is Paul's thesis for his argument in our passage today. He says that present sufferings of this world are not worthy to be compared to the future glory that will be revealed when God's redemptive plan for salvation comes to its eternal conclusion in the future. This is what Paul has in mind when he speaks of salvation in the future tense. And spoiler alert, it's a lot better than most of us think when we think about going to heaven when we die. We'll get there. Don't worry.

I love how Paul phrases it. He actually uses a mathematical phrase in the Greek. Consider. It literally is a mathematical term. He means, I've done the calculations. Right? I've ran the equation. I've put the sufferings of the present world on one side of the scale and I've put the weight of future glory, of future salvation on the other side of the scale and it's not even close. The future salvation wins out over the present suffering. I consider it. It's not even worthy to be compared. And I know what some of you in here who have been, who have suffered a lot might be thinking. Some of you who are suffering a lot right now might be thinking, well, that's easy for him to say. He's a famous guy who wrote one third of the New Testament.

He must have had some kind of euphoric intimacy with God. Good thing we just spent 13 weeks studying his life, right? He was stoned and left for dead. He received 39 lashes from the Romans and the Jews. He was shipwrecked in and out of jail, bit by a poisonous snake. Anybody's suffering compared to Paul's suffering? Plus, he had a thorn in his flesh and in case you were thinking that he had some direct access to God where he kind of got this like special treatment, he had a thorn in his flesh that he prayed, not a physical thorn, just in case you were picturing, like, can't somebody just take that out? No. We don't know exactly what it is, but he had something, some deep trauma that he was dealing with in his life and he prayed desperately

to God to take it away three times and God very clearly told him no. This is the guy who's telling us that our present suffering is not worthy to be compared to the future glory of salvation. Paul has suffered more than most of us could ever imagine and yet he remains convinced that the glory to be revealed in our future salvation is far better than the suffering is bad. I think Paul's confidence in this truth comes from his understanding of what suffering is and where it comes from and what glory, what future salvation is and where it comes from. And as we have established in my introduction this morning, we all in here know what suffering is, although we might have different ideas about where it comes from. I think most of us in this room

are a bit fuzzier on the term glory. Is that fair to say? Okay. A bit fuzzier on the term glory. Many of us who grew up in the church we probably know where it comes from even if we don't know exactly what it is. But what I want to do with the rest of our time as we unpack this passage in Romans 8 is I want to define glory. What is it and where does it come from? Specifically in this passage and what is suffering and where does it come from? And I think, I hope, that if I do a halfway decent job you might be convinced of Paul's thesis statement that our present sufferings are not worthy to be compared to the future glory that is in Christ. So, first thing I want us to notice

is that Paul situates sufferings and glory as opposites in this passage. They are opposite experiences. Present suffering and future glory are opposed to one another. Glory, it's a mysterious and somewhat religious word that we don't really use very often in our normal everyday vocabulary. It can be a hard word to define. It's used multiple ways in the Bible to talk about the visible expression of God's holiness, brilliance, and beauty. Even if you didn't grow up in church, probably the most famous time that you might think about this phrase, we all grew up hearing the Christmas story. The angels appeared to the shepherds and it says, the glory of the Lord shone round about them. The KJV, we remember that? All right. Glory, it's this visible expression. It's us, it's human beings grasping for a word

to explain the visible brilliance of God's beauty when it shows up on earth, when we can see it, when we can get a glimpse of it, we come up with this word, glory. And using some context clues from the rest of the passage today, I would say that what Paul means when he talks about future glory is this. Glory is the ultimate visible expression of all of creation under God's rule and reign. It is the visible thing that we can see when God is in charge the way that he was intended to be in charge, when all of creation falls under submission to God. The only thing that we will experience, the thing that we will see is glory. It is beauty. It is life as it was intended to be. So glory is the visible

expression of all of creation under God's rule and reign. Suffering, on the other hand, as you might have guessed since there are opposites, suffering is the visible expression of creation under our rule and reign. And death is its ultimate expression. So, Genesis 1, beginning of the book, we remember this. God created everything and it was good and very good. All that we knew was glory, the visible expression of creation as it was intended to be. and a few pages in humanity decided to rebel against God. We didn't want to live under his rule or reign. We didn't trust that he was good, that he had good plans for his creation. And from that moment on, all we see throughout Scripture, throughout human history, throughout my life experience, and I'm sure your life experience, is suffering

suffering after suffering after suffering, broken relationships, financial struggles, sickness, war. Suffering is the visible expression of all of creation under our rule and reign and all of our suffering is heading to one climactic moment that every single one of us in the room tries very hard to avoid thinking about and that is death. none of us are going to get away from it. I was at JD's with Rory and my nephew Grayson a couple, like a week ago and I went up with my nephew Grayson on one of the slides and I'm not a heights person. We all know I'm not a heights person. And so like I'm trying to be brave. I mean it's a kid slide, right? And I'm like with my nephew and there's this kid in front of us in line

and he's like, are you alright? I'm like, no. He's like probably nine or ten kind of like cocky sports kid and he's like, you're scared? And I said, yeah, I'm a little bit scared. He's like, I'm not scared. I'm not scared of anything. And he starts like puffing up his chest and like comparing himself to me and I'm like, whoa man, like we don't need to do this right now. We really don't need to do this right now. And he starts listing things that he's not scared of. I'm not scared of snakes. I'm not scared of spiders. And he literally is like going down this list. And I was like, well that's cool. Yeah, I'm trying to like keep conversation. We're waiting in line and all of a sudden it gets quiet. And he goes,

I am scared to die. I'm like, yeah man, that makes sense, right? It's the ultimate conclusion of all of our suffering on earth and none of us can avoid it and most of us don't really know what to do with it. What's going to happen? What is this whole thing about? And what Paul is going to say throughout his writings is that death is that death is the ultimate expression of what happens when we take control. When we remove God from the equation, death is the final consequence of our rebellion. In the beginning, when God created, everything was good and very good. His glory was all that was seen or known. We rebel and from that moment forward all we know is suffering that leads to death. Because all of creation is no longer as God intended it

to be, creation under God's rule and reign was good and very good but when we chose to rule for ourselves what the Bible says is that God actually just allows us to suffer the consequences of our decisions. When we think about wrath, we think about God's wrath, we think about God being angry and punishing us but ultimately as you read the Scriptures what God's wrath is is Him allowing us to experience the consequences of our decisions. Like when we rebelled, the consequence, He said it very clearly, you will surely die. He let out the boundaries, He set the system up, we rebelled and He says, okay, you can have that decision, you can rule and reign but what's going to happen because of that decision are these consequences, all of creation. has been impacted and N.T. Wright says

that creation is out of joint. Let's read it in verse 19. He says, for the creation, this is not humanity, this is the earth, all of creation waits in eager expectation for the children of God to be revealed. For the creation, the earth, was subject to frustration not by its own choice but by the will of the one who subjected it in hope. that the creation itself will be liberated from its bondage to decay and brought into freedom and glory of the children of God. We know that the whole creation has been groaning as in the pains of childbirth right up to the present time. Not only so but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption to sonship. The redemption, listen to this,

the redemption of our bodies. The result of our rebellion against God didn't just negatively affect us but Paul says it negatively affected all of creation. Creation is frustrated and subject to futility. We were intended. God's glory was our, his intention was us to be stewards under creation, over creation under God's rule and reign and instead we took charge in all of creation including ourselves as paying the consequences. everything immediately became more difficult and dangerous when prior to the rebellion nothing was dangerous or difficult. Verse 20 says that the earth is dying and I would say that we are probably accelerating the process. It doesn't mean that all of creation is not beautiful or good. It's that it's out of joint. It's suffering the consequences of our sin. I had the opportunity to go to Wyoming

about a year ago. It's like one of the most beautiful places I've ever been. So incredible. Like mountains and rivers and we're going on hikes and I'm just like blown away by the scenery, by the majesty, by the beauty of creation but then every once in a while it hit me. I am exposed out here. Right? Like if I was out by myself there was a group of us like bear, snake, rock slide, like there's a number of things that could take me out in an instant. I am maybe not made for Wyoming. I don't know if you can tell or not. But this is the reality of the creation that we live in. It is beautiful and yet chaotic. There are shadows of God's glory and his beauty and yet it is filled with the

consequences of our rebellion. Not only is creation groaning but he says we also those of us who have experienced God's goodness who have received the Holy Spirit who understand that there's a better plan for the future. Those of us who have tasted that we understand that there's a better hope for the future and therefore we groan in the midst of our present circumstances because we know that life is not as it should be. And if you don't have that hope if you don't have that worldview if this is all there is there's no reason to groan there's no reason it's just accept it this life is what it is there's nothing that's going to change but those of us who have accepted the resurrection of Jesus Christ we believe that life is not as it should

be and so Paul says we groan all of our suffering is a result of broken creation or broken humanity our broken relationships are either because we're selfish or the other person is selfish or likely both financial struggles are often because of greed fear anxiety worry addiction sickness cancer miscarriages infertility all results of a broken creation all results of suffering because we took charge all leading to the ultimate expression of suffering which is death none of these things existed in creation prior to our rebellion and God is redeeming and ultimately will redeem all of creation for his glory and for our good this is the hope of our future salvation so what should we smile and pretend like everything's great we got salvation coming so it is what it is right get the coffee mugs with the

chippy verses put the bumper stickers on pretend like all of suffering on this earth is not a big deal yes no we know that all of creation is groaning not only so but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit we groan inwardly Paul says groan weep mourn lament the life we are experiencing on earth is not as God intended it to be my first application point for us this morning as followers of Jesus in the midst of suffering is to lament the fracture mourn lament weep the fact that creation is fractured this honors God he laments with us when we lament the brokenness of this world we are aligning our view with his view he knows creation is not as it is intended to be he is in the process of restoring

and redeeming it and instead often times we who are the source of the problem pretend like we can be the architects of the solution how often do we think that we can fix things on our own no we lament if the ultimate climax of all of human suffering is death this is why the gospel of Jesus Christ is the central point of all of human history think about this if literally if the if the climax of our rebellion is our death that means that if Jesus rose from the dead if he is Son of God came lived a perfect life died on our place for our sins the central point in human history is the resurrection because Jesus proved that he did the thing he said he did that he conquered our ultimate enemy that he

conquered the consequences of our ultimate rebellion the God who made the whole world entered the world and had victory over the consequences of our rebellion he had the victory that you and I could not have he did the thing that we were powerless to do the Son of God died buried and was raised from the dead his empty tomb is the proof that he conquered all of the consequences of our rebellion and the climax of the consequences of our rebellion is death and he rose from the dead proving that he had power over all of the consequences our future salvation then is not some disembodied heavenly experience away from earth what Paul says is the redemption of all of creation is the redemption of our bodies and the restoration of all creation the climax of God's

redemption is not to suck us away from here but to bring us back here to a redeemed earth so that we can experience life as it was intended to be this is why it says creation is waiting for our resurrection why would creation eagerly be waiting to be destroyed it's eagerly being waiting to be redeemed for the children of God to return to inherit the new heavens and the new earth for all of eternity this is why Paul could say I consider it that our present sufferings are not worthy to be compared to our future glory because he had a right understanding of what suffering is and where it comes from and he had a right understanding of what glory is and where it comes from suffering comes from our rebellion and our sin glory

comes from God's rule and reign being restored and Jesus made a way for our suffering and sin to be destroyed once and for all 1 Corinthians death where is your victory death where is your sting the reason Paul can count the cost can do the calculations can say that present sufferings aren't worthy to be compared to future glory is because he has an accurate view of future glory that is rooted in the resurrection of Jesus if Jesus truly rose from the dead then everything is different see I think the reason why so many Christians struggle to resonate with Paul's calculations we read words like okay present suffering not worthy to be compared to future glory and we're like really our present suffering feels pretty bad and I've heard pastors talk about heaven and I'm not

sure it's that great compared to what we're talking about see the main focus of the gospel in the American church has been Jesus dying on the cross to forgive you of your sins so that you can go to heaven when you die how many of you guys have heard that how many of you guys think that's true it is it's true don't worry you guys a couple people almost got up and left it is true but it's a relatively small part of the story see the focal point of the redemptive story is not the cross and forgiveness but the empty tomb and the resurrection of God's children to inherit the new heaven and the new earth God didn't give up on his original creation he's not taking us away somewhere to live forever he's taking us

away somewhere temporarily to be absent with the bodies to be present with the Lord that's true but he is going to bring us back he's going to redeem all of creation he's going to make things as they were intended to be God did not give up on his original plan the resurrection proves God's redemption for all of creation this is what Paul and what all of creation are eagerly anticipating is the return of the resurrected Christ the resurrection the judgment of the dead and the bringing of heaven back to a redeemed earth I love how a pastor named Matt Bowen says it he said a disembodied bliss is not what you were created for heaven would be a mere consolation to the life we've lost or never had but resurrection is the restoration of the

life we've lost never had the ultimate destination for followers of Jesus is not to be absent from the good beautiful and God honoring experiences we have on earth but to be filled with them for all of eternity without any possibility of sin suffering or rebellion ever entering into creation again because all of us who will inherit the new heavens and the new earth have bowed our knee to Jesus there is no more opportunity for rebellion and so Paul can say present sufferings have nothing to be compared to our future glory because he's tasted and seen broken beauty on earth and he knows that it will be perfect and fulfilled the new heavens and the new earth I love how John Piper says it he gave this quote to children but I think most of us

are children at heart so we can appreciate this he says that the new heavens of the new earth are the hope of the future glory you will have the best body imaginable can anybody say amen I went to the gym this morning it's not looking good you will have the best body imaginable there will be playing and climbing and swimming and running and jumping and swinging and skiing and roller skating and skateboarding and biking and hiking and bouncing and tumbling and hopping and whatever else you do when you are very very happy

resurrection yes Jesus died to forgive you of your sins that is true but he rose again to redeem all of creation and to resurrect us to a new heaven and a new earth we will experience the beauty of earth as it was intended to be we will see God's glory present invisible for all eternity if you're a follower of Jesus lament the fracture of creation and look to the future of the hope of the resurrection Romans 8 24 and 25 Paul says for this hope we were saved but hope that is seen is no hope at all who hopes for what they have already seen but if we hope for what we do not yet have we wait for it patiently Paul saying yeah you're going to experience suffering here on this earth you're not

going to fully experience the future glory but the resurrection of Jesus Christ is the down payment and if we believe that if we hold on to that we can know with confident expectation that's the biblical word for hope not I wish it happens I hope it might happen confident confident expectation that all of creation will be redeemed in Christ children will be resurrected so if you're in here you're a follower of Jesus if you've based your life placed your faith in Jesus Christ died buried risen again just encourage you with these words I'm not going to even try and make it better than what Paul says I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed lament the fracture of this creation life is not as it should

be your suffering is not God's will for your life lament the fracture and then enjoy the shadows of the beauty that you experience on earth I made a pretty depressing case for all of creation right but we know we experience it we see beautiful things we go on walks with our family we have a good cup of coffee in the morning I'm trying to think of the things that I can say that I enjoy that you won't judge me for we fish we hike we bike we run we do all of these wonderful beautiful things when we enjoy the beauty of creation even in the midst of its brokenness we worship God we give him thanks and we know that what we see in part now we will ultimately see fully for all of eternity

so we lament the brokenness when suffering comes into this world we lament it when the media cycle of November 2024 comes along we lament it when nations rage and war against nations when doctors give diagnosis when the pregnancy test comes back not pregnant again when loved ones pass we lament we grieve but not as people without hope lament the fracture look to the future enjoy the shadows of creation if you're in here you're not a follower of Jesus the pain and suffering that you experience in this present world does not have to have the final word again I'm going to summarize C.S. Lewis and so it's going to sound less smart than it sounds when he says it but C.S. Lewis says there's really three ways to approach suffering and a lack of satisfaction on

this earth he says there's the fool's way when the marriage doesn't give you the satisfaction that you think it will you go find another marriage when the job doesn't give you the satisfaction you think it would you find another job when the hobby when the pleasure whatever it is you keep chasing pleasure you keep going going to the next thing and the next thing and eventually you think you'll find satisfaction but if you've done that for long enough at all you know it doesn't work C.S. Lewis says that there's the fool and then often the fool turns to the cynic because he's tried she's tried they've gone to the next thing and the next thing and the next thing and it still leaves them empty and unsatisfied and so he says the cynic just becomes

comfortable with well I guess this is as good as it gets I guess these experiences are the best they'll be I'll constantly be thirsting and hungering for more and so I just will stop expecting much out of this life then he says there's the Christian way the Christian way realizes that the world is actually broken and in need of redemption and that's the reason that nothing can fully satisfy us on earth it's because our deepest longings can only be filled in creation under God's rule and reign it all comes down to what we do with the resurrection if Jesus raised from the dead everything is different Paul literally says this in 1 Corinthians to Christians he says if Jesus didn't raise from the dead we are a people to be most pitied says go eat

and drink and try and find satisfaction do your best because because if Christ didn't rise from the dead then really our only two options are the fool or the cynic I think Paul suggests the fool he's like go ahead and try it look for it so if you're in here and you've never wrestled with the claims of Jesus raising from the dead I'd invite you to consider those this morning in my opinion in my view it is the only true good way to face suffering and to face the question of that kid on the slide at JD's scared to die yeah apart from the resurrection we all should be scared to die but because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ which is historically noteworthy to say the least if that happened we don't have to

be afraid and if it didn't happen I'm wasting a lot of time so I hope if you're in here you're not a follower of Jesus that you'd find somebody that you have a relationship with that you could talk to about the hope of the resurrection for those of us that are followers of Jesus I hope that we get a more full picture of our salvation in the future tense next I got to clarify because I feel like I made it sound like heaven's bad heaven's not bad it's way better than here it's just not as good as what's coming afterwards life life after life after death life after death for the follower of Jesus is good but what Paul means when he talks about future restoration it's life after life after death resurrected Christ bringing

the new heavens and the new earth redeeming all of creation and allowing us to experience everything as it was intended to be let's pray father we thank you so much for the hope the resurrection of Jesus pray for each person in this room who is currently experiencing suffering I pray that they'd have hope in the midst of their suffering whether it's due to broken creation or their own brokenness or the brokenness of somebody else or a combination of the three God may they have hope in the midst of their suffering may they lament the brokenness of this creation and look forward to the hope of future new creation father we are so so grateful that you give us another option that we don't have to be the fool or the cynic God that we can enjoy

the good things of this creation knowing that it's broken and better things are to come may we live in light of that every day for your glory and for our good it's in Jesus name I pray amen we are we are going to end this morning by a reading from Revelation chapter I said it plural it's Revelation sorry Revelation chapter 21 and 22 as we go I'd invite you to just consider the beauty of John's poetic expression of what Paul talked about when he said the present sufferings are not worthy to be compared to the future glory he says then I saw a new heaven and a new earth for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away and there was no longer any sea I saw the holy city the new Jerusalem

coming down out of heaven from God prepared as a bride beautifully dressed for her husband and I heard a loud voice from this throne saying look God's dwelling place is now among the people and he will dwell with them they will be his people and God himself will be their God he will wipe away every tear from their eyes there will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain or suffering for the old order of things the things under our rule and reign have passed away he who was seated on the throne said I am making everything new he said write this down for these words are trustworthy and true it is done I am the alpha and the omega the beginning and the end to the thirsty I will give water without

cost from the spring of the water of life those who are victorious will inherit all of this and I will be their God and they will be my children he goes on he says in the new Jerusalem he says I did not see a temple in the city for a Jewish person this would be a problem why did I not see a temple because the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple we need no temple to come between us and God when God is here among us the city does not need the sun or the moon to shine on it for the glory of God gives its light and the Lamb is its lamp the nations will walk by its light the kings of the earth will bring their splendor into it on no

day will its gates ever be shut for there will be no night there the glory and honor of the nations will be brought into it nothing impure will ever enter it nor will anyone who does what is shameful or deceitful but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life then the angel showed me the river of the water of life as clear as crystal flowing from the throne of God of the Lamb down the middle of the great street of the city on each side of the river stood the tree of life bearing twelve crops of fruit yielding its fruit every month and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations no longer will there be any curse the throne of God and the Lamb will be

in the city and his servants will serve them and they will see his face and his name will be on their foreheads and there will be no more night they will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun for the Lord will give them light and they will reign forever and ever amen you're dismissed church go in peace thank you so much yeah that was amazing thank you so much Thank you.
