A SUMMER'S JOURNEY: Living on Mission
2024-06-03
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMcOy06yBBU

We pray, amen.

I'm still getting set up. Y'all are getting ready. For those of you that don't know me, my name is Corey Smith. If we haven't gotten the opportunity to meet, we'll make this a quick introduction. But I have the privilege of being on the teaching team here at Canvas Community. As well as having the opportunity to speak from time to time, I have a dual role here at Canvas, and my dual role is, you guys get to watch me get up here sometimes, and I get to teach, and that's really my passion. But I also serve on the church governance board here, and I wanted to add some insight for those of you that might be newer, some people that might have been around with us for a while that don't really know how the whole thing works.

But some added insight, I serve as a board member here at Canvas Community in what's called a dual role. Obviously, I have my role as a governance board member, helping shape, structure, governance, bylaws of our church. But I also serve with different ministry leads as their liaison to the board. And what that looks like for me is I have a dual role, right, with six others from our congregation. But I also liaison our discipleship program, which means I work with the ministry leads of each of our discipleship ministries, and kind of under that umbrella of discipleship to support them and their volunteers to the work that God has called them to do. People like Michelle Meeks. We know Michelle. Donovan Russell, who leads worship but is also our next-gen pastor. Melissa McKay, who's our passages, or if you're not familiar with the cool hip term, it's our

Sunday school director. And everyone that's involved in the men's and women's ministries here at Canvas Community. I, spend some time with me, I love discipleship. But I realize that term could be, mean a lot of things to a lot of different people, depending on how you're using it. And what I don't want today is to, I don't want to funnel that term to say discipleship has to mean blank, right? We're, we in the church are really good at being that rigid. Discipleship means this. I'm not nearly that rigid. Spend some time with me and you'll probably find that out. But what my hope is today is to give you an example of discipleship done well. Not, not that we can carbon copy it, but that the Holy Spirit can stir whatever he would want to stir in you.

Sound good? So today, I've titled my sermon, Within the Grander Scale of the Summer Journey Series. I'm going to try this, see if I'm good at it. Dave gave me the remote again. Son of Encouragement, Discipleship 101. And as always, typically what I do, before we get into our sermon today, I want to kind of set the stage for you guys. So we're all kind of in the same mindset going into this. So if you've been with us or if you're just joining us, we're in our Summer Journey Series. So we're spending some time getting to know and understand better the Apostle Paul in his life and ministry. We've touched on Saul as persecutor, right? Saul going from house to house is this Pharisee who is zealous for the law and is kind of tracking

down this new evolved belief within Judaism called Christianity. We've touched on Saul as convert, right? Damascus road experience. Now we'll begin touching on Paul as missionary. For those of you that didn't spend your entire childhoods in Sunday school, you may hear us use the name Saul, Paul interchangeably. And Ryan touched on this in the overview. Saul is more of the Hebrew name. Paul is more of the Greek or Gentile name, just for review. So I've done this little slide. I actually got this from a group in our small group. So for assistance, if you hear this, it's Paul. I got to give Jason and Michelle a shout out for that one. So through our series, I think our shared desire from the leadership team is, or the teaching team is to help you all add some tools to your tool basket when it comes to this person,

this apostle Paul, this domineering individual within the canon of the New Testament. What makes him, him? Paul, as we've been learning, travels with, learns from, co-labors with a conglomerate of individuals. Throughout the book of Acts and Paul's later epistle writings, we'll be introduced more personally, although some in greater or lesser detail, to people like Luke. Luke is a physician from Antioch who was a close friend of Paul's and the narrator of the gospel bearing his name. Which gospel did he write? Luke, right. As well as Luke is the hand writing the book of Acts, which in its full name is the Acts of the Apostles. The Acts, the name the Acts of the Apostles is kind of deceiving. And I know you don't typically hear this from the stage, but hear me out. It's a little deceiving because what this book is really accomplishing is some of the Acts

of the Apostles. What I mean by that is throughout church history, secular history, archaeology, we know that some of the Apostles took the good news of Jesus Christ as far as India, Europe, Asia, Africa. And so when I say some of the Acts of the Apostles, not nearly all of them are recorded. Just kind of the small group and what's happening after Pentecost around Israel, Greece, some Asia Minor. Does that make sense? So I think this will be helpful to some of my new believers in the room. I want you to think of Luke's writings, right? The gospel of Luke and the book of Acts as a singular storyline all about Christ's work here on earth. From the angel Gabriel announcing the coming Messiah in Luke 1 to Paul's testimony of God's kingdom having come in Acts 28.

One singular story, a singular narrative of the way God in the form of Jesus decides to interrupt and break into his creation. His creation that fell away and needed to be redeemed. The story of how Jesus interacted with us, how his teaching should shape us, how his death redeems us, how his resurrection seals us and is promised to us, and how we are then able to participate in that kingdom work with him in and through us. This is kind of combined. Luke is recording the ultimate rescue story. We'll be introduced throughout our summer journey series to Paul, to people like John Mark. You'll read this in Acts 13. Not John Mark Comer. I know you guys are excited to get back into practicing the way, but this is the John Mark. This is the writer of the gospel according to?

That's the tricky one. Mark. Right. So this is the writer of the gospel according to Mark who was probably the writing hand for the apostle Peter, recording his teachings and perspective of a life lived with Jesus Christ. We'll be introduced to a number of missionaries and evangelists that interact with the apostle Paul, that take the good news of the risen savior and king, Christ Jesus, to the ends of the earth. But today, primarily, we'll be focused on one partner in particular, Barnabas, and the events and happenings that kind of prelude their first missionary journey together. Today, I want to focus on a relationship that probably deeply shaped the apostle Paul. And to rob and duplicate, like I'm good for, Ryan's analogy of the Mona Lisa. That's one thing, right? Seeing the Mona Lisa. Have any of my travelers in the room been to the Louvre?

Probably the Holmeses. See, that's very cool. Like I always say, if it's not in Frederick County, it's not worth seeing. So, I mean, I have not been there, but I'm going to take your word on it. But that's one thing, right? Seeing the Mona Lisa. Seeing the Mona Lisa, but then understanding Da Vinci's artistic hand, his background, his history, and then seeing his work again through a deeper and more dimension lens. It doesn't change the original beauty of the work. The deeper understanding only enhances the beauty of the work. Does that make sense? This is what I want us to walk away from, from this series. Seeing Paul, but not only seeing it for what it is, but understanding more of it where it carries a deeper and more dimension view of how King Jesus uses and chooses us, people like us,

to participate with him in the spreading of the good news to the four corners of the earth. Dare I say, this is where I think a large part of the abundant life that Jesus promised us lives. In our vocation, in our God-given vocation that he has placed on each one of us. But also, I recognize the fact that here lies the temptation, right? With the taking the gospel to the four corners of the earth. We're really good at, we're really good at large-scale ideology. Or is it just me? I mean, if it's just me, it's okay. But I think it's us, right? I think we're really good with large-scale ideology. But what I want us to do today is let's start with small-scale obedience and see what that looks like. We, you and I, will only ever occupy one square foot of real estate at any given time in our entire lives.

We tend to be really good at voicing our opinion on big-scale endeavors. I'm sure a lot of people in here, if we're being honest, have a plan to fix the world. Let's step on some toes. I'm sure a lot of people in this room have a plan to fix the U.S. government. Vote for this person, vote for that person. I'm sure a lot of people in here have a plan to fix the state of Virginia. I'm sure a lot of people in here even have a plan to fix Winchester and Frederick County. See, we're really good at having an opinion on some grand scale where we can't be held for its successes or failures. But what if I challenged you with something today? What if I challenged you to be obedient to God in oftentimes simple but very difficult things?

This is my challenge to myself as well. What would Winchester and Frederick County look like if we, the church, actually loved our neighbors ourselves? What would our street look like? What would our community, our homes look like if we actively proclaimed Jesus as king? Here's the hard part. But we also lived a life that reflected that conviction. What if our lives look like? What would our lives look like if we actively participated in making disciples or apprentices of Jesus? Today, we're going to look at someone who actually did it. And they are not in the limelight of the New Testament. Today, we're going to look at a man named Barnabas. A man filled with the Holy Spirit who obediently goes where the Spirit leads him and someone who doesn't get in the limelight. Because I think Barnabas understands that prominence doesn't equal importance in the kingdom of God.

This is what I want you to sit with today. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, in Jesus' name, we come to you today for you to open our hearts and minds to the things you would have us take away from this meeting, this gathering together that we do in your name, so that we might go out from here and be your church, your bride amongst the world. Give us tools, renew our hearts for the commands and instructions that you gave us as our king. May we have the discipline and faith to act upon those things you gave us. Lord, give us eyes to see the world as you do. Give us the hope that ultimately all things will be reconciled to you. Give us the perseverance and endurance to run the race set before us well.

May all honor and glory be appointed to you as we, your image bearers, try to do this vocation the best we can. May you give us the humility to be a disciple. May we have the courage to also make disciples. May we that are called to it take up the banner of son of encouragement. May we do this thing well through your strength and power. We pray all of this in the name of Jesus for your glory and our neighbor's good. In Jesus' name, amen. I'm going to be honest. My primary text today was supposed to be Acts 13. I took some creative liberties, and it is not Acts 13, but I'm going to give you that as homework later. I know. Stick with me. We're going to be jumping around a little bit today, but who has it in their mind before we get kicked off?

Who thinks of Barnabas as, like, Paul's sidekick? Like, let's be honest, right? I think we all, maybe it's me, maybe this is my baggage from my Sunday school theology, but, like, when I think Barnabas, like, when somebody drops the Christianese phrase, like, it was a Paul and Barnabas type of discipleship. You're like, you get, my mind, maybe not yours, my mind was flooded with this idea of, like, a Batman and Robin kind of thing. It's like, ba-na-na-na-na-na-na-na, Barnabas and Paul. Oh, brother, this guy stings.

I mean, I did that for a long time. If someone used that phrase, that's what my mind would be flooded with. This picture of an older, mature Paul taking on this young Barnabas who kind of just shows up in Scripture and kind of drags him along on these missionary journeys. But from the biblical account, this is not the case. Paul is not this astute, mature Christian, although he is, but he does not drag young Barnabas along on some mission trip. These are two men who are discipling each other in unique and godly ways. So, let's together get acquainted, biblically, with this person named Barnabas. Let's turn to Acts 5, and we'll start there as I build a case. We're going to start in Acts 5, and we're going to read to verses 1 through 11.

But a man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece of property. However, he kept back part of the proceeds with his wife's knowledge and brought a portion of it and laid it at the apostles' feet. Ananias, Peter asked, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and keep back part of the proceed of the land? Wasn't it yours while you possessed it? And after it was sold, wasn't it at your disposal? Why is it you planned this thing in your heart? You have not lied to people, but to God. When he heard these things, when he heard these words, Ananias dropped dead, and a great fear came upon all who heard. The young man got up, wrapped his body, carried him out, and buried him. But about three hours later, his wife came in, not knowing what had happened.

Tell me, Peter asked her, did you sell the land for this price? Yes, she said, for that price. Then Peter said to her, why did you agree to test the Spirit of the Lord? Look, the feet of those who buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out. Instantly, she dropped dead at his feet, and the young men came in. They found her, carried her out, and buried her beside her husband. Then great fear came upon the whole church and all who had heard these things. Context. Always important, right? So the church in Jerusalem is selling all their possessions. They're laying them at the apostles' feet to take care of each other, to take care of the poor and needy among them. Quick side note. I think this is descriptive, not prescriptive.

I wish I had time to unpack that, but I don't. But come find me later. We can talk about it. But these two early followers of the way, remember we're not called Christians until later in Acts. These two followers, Ananias and his wife Sapphira, sell a piece of property just like the rest of the church is doing. Although they keep back a portion of the money. Real people, real lives, right? They're probably keeping back a portion of the money to say, if this whole following the way thing falls apart, we're going to need something to fall back on. The spirit then pronounces judgment because they are lying, and they're dropped dead, buried, kaput. If you've spent any time in church, this is a pretty recognizable story, right, in the book of Acts? Yep, nope, yep, maybe, okay.

It's a pretty, I think it's a pretty recognizable story in the book of Acts. But there's something that happens right before this that most people don't ever read, comprehend, see. Because it's an act of humble obedience, and it's out of the limelight in the drama. Let's go back one chapter to Acts 4. And we'll start at verse 32 through 37. Now the entire group of those who believed were of one heart and one mind, and no one claimed that any of his possessions was his own. But instead, they held everything in common. With great power, the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and a great grace was on all of them. For there was not a needy person among them, because all who owned lands or houses sold them, brought the proceeds of what was sold, and laid them at the apostles' feet.

This was distributed to each person as they had any need. Joseph, a Levite from Cyprus by birth, the one whom the apostles called Barnabas, which is translated, son of encouragement, sold a field he owned, brought the money, and laid it at the apostles' feet. So this is our introduction to Barnabas. He did not just show up on the scene and go to some mission journey. He's a Joseph. His name's Joseph. He's a man from Cyprus. And his nickname, who the apostles call him, is the son of encouragement. He's not in the limelight. He's even mentioned quickly right before, like a story that's drama to the emerging church in Jerusalem. But he's someone who's obedient and filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, I want to build on this idea of Barnabas and give you a taste of who I think he was and who the biblical account covers him as.

We've covered some of Saul Paul's history up to this point, how he's persecuted the church of Jesus. See, during his travels on the Damascus road, he was on his way to drag more followers of the way off to jail in Acts 9. But Jesus confronts him in a vision saying, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? After Saul has this confrontation with the risen Savior, he spends about three years in Damascus in the Arabian desert, according to Galatians 5, or Galatians 1, if you want to go back and read that. Which, I've got to bust his chops, which Ryan did not talk about last week. But, he did send me a map, so that's something. This is his map. No, it's super appropriate, actually, it's super appropriate that Ryan was off last week. Most theologians call this Paul's silent years.

So, to keep the theme going, Ryan was silent last week. I wish our logistics were that good. He had a stomach bug, and y'all did not want him up here puking in a trash can. So, the desert, the wilderness, this journey from Damascus and staying in that area in the Arabian desert, this gives you an idea of Paul's journey over 14-ish years. If you think back to our spiritual season series, this is where I think Jesus does the most intensive work. With us, and he did with Paul. Repenting Paul's mind and his heart and worldview to be an apprentice of Jesus and what that looks like versus being a Pharisaical Jew. But now, right, Paul has had this Damascus Road experience. He spent three years wandering the desert, being apprenticed by Jesus. How is he to join hand-in-hand with the apostles that are doing the work back in Jerusalem?

I mean, if I'm Peter or one of the apostles, not super excited about meeting this dude who, up until fairly recently, as recently as three years, was dragging people off to jail. He was present at the stoning of Stephen. Probably not real high on my priority list when I'm pastoring and leading a church in Jerusalem. Now, real people realize, right? I know we're all good Christians in the room, so hear me out. Like, let's take off our Christian glasses for a minute and how we tend to read the world but don't also act in the world. I'll leave that one up. But this dude, who's been dragging Christians off, throwing them in jail, sees a vision of Jesus in the desert, is healed, now has wandered around in the desert for three years. Now he's like, hey, guys, let's meet up.

Let's hang out. Are we feeling the tension? No? You guys are better than me. I would feel the tension. I'd be like, this dude wants to meet up. I'm good. But, Barnabas was apparently like you all and very forgiving and full of grace and mercy. But that's where the son of encouragement steps in. Let's turn to Acts 9, 26 through 30 together. So when he, that's Paul, arrived in Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples. But they were all afraid of him since they did not actually believe he was a disciple. Barnabas, however, took him and brought him to the apostles and explained to them how Saul had seen the Lord on the road and that the Lord had talked to him. And how, in Damascus, he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus.

Saul was coming and going with them in Jerusalem, speaking boldly in the name of the Lord. He conversed and debated with some of the Hellenistic Jews. But then they tried to kill him. When the brothers found out, they took him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus.

So, the church is, Barnabas is in here being a good intercessor, right? He is reconciling the apostles to Saul, Saul to the apostles. He is doing the Lord's work. He sees Paul boldly proclaiming the name of Jesus and living that out. But then gets in some arguments with the Hellenistic Jews. Hellenistic, if you don't know, is just like a reference to a Greek-influenced Jewish person. So, they got some pagan ideas. Alexander the Great brought a lot of that stuff with him. So, this Hellenistic influence. They try to kill him and he gets sent off to Tarsus. Where is Paul from? Originally. Tarsus, right? So, he gets sent home where he's likely making tents, reaching people with the message of Jesus, and probably starting house churches. So, let's read Acts 11, 19 through 26. You guys didn't know you'd be in a Bible study today.

Now, those who had been scattered as a result of the persecution that had started because of Stephen. Who was at the starting of Stephen? To Paul. It's Paul, right. Made their way as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except the Jews. But there were some of them, men from Cyprus and Cyrene, who came to Antioch and began speaking to the Greeks, also proclaiming the good news about the Lord Jesus. The Lord's hand was with them, and a large number who believed turned to the Lord. News about them reached the church in Jerusalem, and they sent out Barnabas to travel as far as Antioch. When he arrived and saw the grace of God, he was glad and encouraged. All of them remained true to the Lord with devoted hearts. For he was a good man, this is Barnabas, he was a good man full of the Holy Spirit and of faith,

and a large number of people were added to the Lord. Then he went to Tarsus to search for Saul. And when he found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year, they met with the church and taught large numbers. The disciples were first called Christians in Antioch. So Barnabas recruits Paul to assist him in his pastoral efforts to the church in Antioch, where they're first called Christians. Barnabas recognized the strengths that Paul had. Paul was the perfect—Barnabas saw this God-given potential and knew that Paul was this perfect bridge between the Gentiles and the Jews. Do we feel like we have a better understanding of who Barnabas is? Yep. He's not just this young guy who Paul brings on his missionary journey. David, if you want to come up. He's not some young guy that Barnabas—or that Paul brings on his missionary journey with him.

This is a man who steps out of the limelight, who disciples and is discipled. This man is full of the Holy Spirit, who has stepped into the faith of Jesus with both feet. This man who has sold his property and faith to take care of the poor and needy among him. This man who has been a peacemaker among the family of God, reconciling the apostles to Saul and Saul to the apostles, so that they would have unity in their mission for the gospel, for Jesus. This man who has recruited the persecutor to now be the pastor to the people in Antioch. Barnabas is not the sidekick. Barnabas is a faithful disciple maker—disciple maker—disciple maker who builds the gifts of God within someone and steps out of the way to let that gift reach its God-given potential.

Because prominence doesn't equal importance in the kingdom of God. Barnabas didn't write a third of the New Testament. We don't quarrel over the theology of Barnabas. Barnabas was discipled. He co-labored among his peers, and he made disciples. He did simple but often very difficult things, and he saw the world impacted by that message of the true King Jesus. This is the kingdom of God. For my note-takers, write this down. And I totally stole this too, so I can't take credit for it. But a person who calls themselves a follower of Jesus should surround themselves with three types of individuals.

There you go. Those above them, mentors. Those beside them, peers. And those who are being discipled. Disciples are students. So I want to take some time. I want to give some practical application for what this message meant to me. A mentor, when you think of mentor, think of someone who truly wants your God-given abilities to further the kingdom of God. But also someone, if I'm being honest, who will tell you to stop and shut up when they need to. And step out of the way to let God finish the God-given work in you. Think of a coach. Think of someone who will correct you, who will discipline you, who will encourage you when you need it. Someone who is mindful, vulnerable, authentic, truly and deeply and honestly wants the kingdom of God to be positively impacted by your testimony.

I want to dwell here for all my good Christians in the room. Why have we, I'm including myself in that, why have we pushed discipleship off to the side? And before you answer that question, if your mind went to, I'm not capable of leading a Bible study, you're in the wrong headspace. Discipleship is more than leading a Bible study. Discipleship may look like inviting people into your home to see how you authentically and truly react to relationship, to arguments, to caringness with your husband or wife. How you interact with your kids. How you interact with your kids. How you pray together, eat together, how life looks like. This sounds foreign to us, right? This is not foreign to the world of the New Testament. This is not foreign to Barnabas and Paul. Discipleship may look like teaching or learning,

no shame, in children's church or in our youth group, raising up the next generation of Christian leaders. I have a heart for the next generation of Christian leaders. Discipleship may look like participating or leading a Sunday school class. You saw a slide for that. Discipleship may look like sharing your gifts or talents in men's and women's ministries. Those are the cut and dry, we have a game plan. We have discipleship avenues. But what we don't have cut and dry discipleship avenues for. Discipleship may look like sitting down with a panhandler or someone experiencing homelessness and sharing a meal and getting to know their story. I don't know why I do this every time. Discipleship may look like reading a book to a child and reflecting God's love and kindness of a God who loves and cares for us.

Church in America, discipleship may look like washing the feet of someone you consider your enemy. Discipleship may look like sharing the testimony of where you've been and where God now has you. I mean, I said this from the get-go. I stole a lot of this from my small group. And I don't lead my small group. I participate in my small group. But these ideas are stuff we talk about in our small group. I'm not gonna drop any names, but I mean, this is the joke within small group of, you guys yell at your kids. I thought you guys were perfect. Like, no, we're not. We're not perfect. Dallas Willard puts it this way. We count the cost of discipleship, right? We're good at that. We're good at counting how much it's gonna cost us to follow Jesus.

But often forget that the cost of non-discipleship is greater than the price we might pay to walk with Jesus. Non-discipleship costs abiding peace, a life penetrated throughout by love, faith that sees everything in the light of God, overriding governance for good, hopefulness that stands firm in the most discouraging of circumstances, power to do what is right. In short, non-discipleship costs you exactly the abundance of life Jesus said he came to bring.

So we often leave the mentoring to the pastor. We don't do that, do we? You guys are a good group. Other people do that. We often leave the mentoring to the pastor. But think of it like this. If you came to me and we were talking and I said, I've laid bricks for 40 years. Been a bricklayer all my life. You're like, man, I bet this guy knows how to lay some brick. And then somebody brought in somebody that said, you know what? I know Corey. He knows how to lay brick. Corey, why don't you teach this guy who's interested in the trade how to lay brick? And I go, I'm not good enough to teach somebody how to lay brick. I can lay brick, but can't teach anybody else to lay brick. Why does that analogy work in our secular culture, right?

We would expect a bricklayer to be able to teach somebody how to lay brick. Somebody that's done it for 40 years. You could give them an apprentice. They could learn how to lay brick. This is the things I've learned that I do right. These are things I'm still learning. That analogy works in our secular world. Why do we throw that analogy out the window when it comes to the church and discipleship? Remember how we talked about vocation? Our vocation in Jesus is tied ever so closely with the abundant life he promised. I think unfortunately in our day, we wrongly separate the idea of discipleship, being a disciple of Jesus, with becoming a believer in Christ. In the New Testament, in contrast to our current practice, the New Testament equated being a Christian to being a disciple.

If you saw our verses today. In fact, the term disciple is used 269 times in the New Testament, as opposed to the term Christian, which is used three times. Barnabas. Discipleship to Barnabas and Paul, and especially to Jesus, was in stark contrast to our Western lens. Learning in Jesus' time was very relational and holistic. Discipleship meant so much more than the transfer of information. I'll say that again for myself. Discipleship is so much more than the transfer of information. It refers to the intimate teaching of the teacher's life, promoting their values, being able to reproduce their teachings. Could we, and this I think is the hesitation for the American church, could we invite someone into our lives and say, like the Apostle Paul did in 1 Corinthians 11, imitate me as I learn to imitate Christ.

So wait. We're really good at putting on a front. We're really good at being the good Christians that go to church on Sunday. That's not what Jesus called us to. Jesus promises this abundant life and part of that is the added weight of, I'm going to go back if I can. Maybe I can only go forward. There we go. Too far. This is the added weight of surrounding yourselves with three types of individuals. Mentors, those that hold you accountable that say, Corey, stop. Shut up. Stop. Those who do co-labor, those I can say, and he's telling me to shut up. I don't know how that's sitting with me. That guy's a jerk. And they go, yeah, he is a jerk sometimes, but also, he's probably right and you should consider it. Okay. Those who we disciple, that we invite into our lives to say, imitate me as I learn to imitate Christ.

Now that I've stepped on some toes around that, let me unpack some of the peer mentality. Now, sometimes we need someone not over us or under us, but someone beside us to bounce ideas off like I just talked about. Someone who understands our season of life, whether spiritual or physical, we're all in different areas, and someone who is beside us plowing the fields and preparing the harvest with us. When a coach pushes a team, the team reacts. But those who are who are in mission together see the value in the coach's words. This is important. We need Christian community who are in different or even the same seasons of life that we're in. Not for fleshly affirmation, because we're really good at that, but for our spiritual vindication. What I don't want is us to see this idea

of peers and go, you, you think exactly like I think about this thing. Let's join up, and I was right, he was wrong. No, what I want is a peer that knows you and loves you deeply and vulnerably enough to say, man, yeah, maybe you're right. Sometimes you're wrong. We are in mission together. And last but not least, a disciple. Being under someone doesn't appeal to our American individualistic mindset. That doesn't, we're not like, yes, let somebody tell me what to do. But, let me challenge you with this, it should appeal to our Christian communal mindset. we need people to teach us things. Philip and the Ethiopian eunuch in Acts 8 is my go-to for discipleship verse, and it's a weight I bore when Corbin, my oldest, was baptized. Acts 8, 29 through 31 says,

and the Spirit said to Philip, go over and join this chariot. So Philip ran over and heard him, reading the prophet Isaiah, and asked, do you understand what you are reading? And he said, how can I unless someone teaches me? Church, I spent all this time on the relationship of Barnabas and Paul because I have a heart for the discipleship of the church. And I'm not saying I do this thing right. Please do not hear. Cory's doing it right, everybody else is doing it wrong. I, just down to my core, have a desire to see the next generation of disciples take the kingdom of God to places I could only imagine.

Benjamin William Hastings has a song titled A Father's Blessing that has a line in it that I deeply resonate with as a father and as my co, my joint, what, what, what, my second Job, as a father and as a disciple maker. May my ceiling be your floor. May this generation and the generations after us take for granted the uncomfortable faith that we've had to strive for. May they take the kingdom of God to new and profound places. May our ceiling be your floor. Is that our prayer for the next generation of Christian leaders, the next generation of Christian lay people that are faithful, that they take what we strive for, these simple but often very difficult things that Jesus commands us to do and they take it for granted. So we're not closing with communion today

because I want each and all of us to consider what is our cost of discipleship and what is the cost of non-discipleship. I want your next experience taking the body of blood of Jesus to be one where you've talked to God, you've wrestled through this idea, if you're struggling with this idea of the abundant life that Jesus talked about, the abundant life is not comfortable life. I want, we get that, right? It is not what we want. Romans 8 talks about we are conformed to the image of Jesus. How do we live into that abundant life? That's what I want you to talk to and wrestle with God through this week. To fully experience the abundant life that Jesus promised through the vocation that he's put on each and every one of you. We don't know

where the apostle Paul would be without someone like Barnabas because Barnabas was faithful to his God-given vocation through small acts of faithfulness that led Paul to the destiny that God had put on him. With all these things in mind, take some time today this week to read Acts 13, just Paul and Barnabas' first missionary journey together and ask the Lord how he might use you. And because I can't necessarily stick to one thought, this is a unique hinge passage and I want you to take this with you reading Acts 13. Acts 1-12 is primarily focused on Peter's ministry to the Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria. Acts 13-28 records the ministry of Paul spreading the gospel to the rest of the known world to the Gentiles. This is a hinge passage. You'll see Barnabas and Paul's relationship

butt heads. How do we as a brother, how do we as brothers in Christ butt heads but unite for the sake of the gospel? They butt heads over Barnabas' cousin John Mark. How they reconcile those differences and they unite and they say, you know what, we have differences but we are united for the sake of the gospel because we've had an encounter with the resurrected Savior that we will not give up over a dispute. Our benediction this week comes from Paul's letter to the church of Ephesus. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think according to the power at the work within us to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus through all generations forever and ever. Amen. Go in peace, church.

In the dark and all alone Growing comfortable Are you too scared to move and walk out of this tomb Buried underneath the lies that you believed Safe and sound Stuck in the ground You lost to be found
