FAQ: Why Communion?
2024-10-28
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1fYAOukXoU

In Jesus' name I pray, amen. I'm gonna sit on a stool today because I do not feel very well. And that's the story. And so it's a great reminder that the Holy Spirit does not need me to be energetic to speak through me to you. And so that's my prayer this morning that we would hear from him. Hey, being a father has opened me up to many new experiences and a whole new world of information. When you become a parent, you're exposed to things that you never would have been exposed to before. I have been experiencing that for about a year and a half now. One of those new experiences that have impacted me greatly is an Australian TV show by the name of Bluey. Some of you may be familiar. And if you are not, I am sorry.

It is your loss. From the outside looking in, it is a silly show for kids about a young blue healer puppy and her family. Yes, her family. My dad found out it was a girl and he was very upset. But once you get enveloped into the family, you quickly realize that in my opinion, it is a cinematic masterpiece filled with lighthearted fun for the kids and deep philosophical reflections for the life or for the parents. One such episode of Cinematic Masterpiece is an episode called Born Yesterday. Anybody? Are my parents in the room? All right, Born Yesterday. The dad pretends that he was born yesterday and he is experiencing everything for the first time. It's obviously goofy for the kids. They're walking him all around and teaching him about what the sun is and why you shouldn't just walk up to strangers

and eat their food. Goofy for the kids, but it has deep rooted meaning for adults. At the end of the episode, after the game is over and the dad has stopped playing, the mom looks out into the backyard and the son is, or the father, sorry, I gotta do my do not disturb. My group chat's going off. Somebody.

The wife looks out and the dad is sitting out in the grass by himself, marveling at the beauty of creation all around him, the creation that he walks by every single day without noticing. But just that few minutes of a game of making him look at everything like he's looking at it for the first time opened up his eyes to the beauty all around him. Approaching familiar things from a fresh perspective can often lead us to a deeper appreciation. And that's what I wanna do with communion this morning because my guess is that there's really two groups of people in the room this morning. There are people who are newer to faith who have kind of been outside the church looking in and have found a home here. And my guess is for you, communion feels a bit strange,

but everybody else seems to be comfortable with it. So you've just learned to go along with the flow and not ask any questions. And then for a lot of others of us, we're longtime believers or what I like to call church folk because for whatever reason, that's how you say it. And we have become familiar with participating in communion and maybe we even have a shallow understanding of it. We have kind of just adopted whatever we were taught as children. We haven't really thought about it for ourselves in a long time and we've lost our appreciation and wonder around what is so beautiful and great about communion. So that's my goal is that we'd look at it from a fresh perspective. And for those of you who have been too afraid to ask what's going on with this whole thing

because it seems strange to you, but everyone else thinks it's normal, hopefully this will help you understand what it is exactly we are doing in communion. And for those of us that have grown up in the church and we've become familiar with it or we've just embraced whatever theology about communion was handed to us, I hope that taking this fresh look will invite you into a deeper experience at the table this morning and moving forward. Does that sound like a good plan? All right, so the outline for this morning is what is communion exactly? And then why of all the things, and this was the question that I actually received from the survey of the frequently asked questions was of all the things Jesus could have asked us to do on a regular basis, why communion?

It seems strange, it seems odd. And then how should we approach the table? What is communion? Why did Jesus give it to us? And how should we participate in it? And again, I personally, I thought when I got this question that it was gonna be a softball for me, right? I've grown up in the church. I know what communion is. I know about communion. I take communion, I've led communion services. It should be an easy message for me to prepare. But the more that I studied, the more I realized that communion is much bigger and more beautiful than I've often given it credit for. And so my hope, my prayer is that that will happen for many of us in the room this morning. What exactly is communion? Well, communion is one of the two primary ordinances

or sacraments given by God to the church. Some expressions of the church throughout history have emphasized more than two, but the majority of the church throughout all of history has agreed on two primary ordinances. An ordinance is just a specific practice given to the church by God to do together. The first is baptism. It's a one-time ordinance for new believers to do in front of their church community. The thing that I love about both ordinances is that it is both an individual and a corporate act because Christianity is not an individual faith. It is a corporate faith. We do this thing together. So when we do baptisms, which we're going to do later in November, individuals are going to participate in the act of baptism, the ordinance, the sacrament of baptism, and we are going to be observers

and celebrators of that because we are in this together with them. The second is communion. It is a repetitive practice for the church to do regularly with one another in community. I love what this old dead guy says about sacraments. His name's Thomas Watson. He says a sacrament is a visible sermon. It is a physical action that invites individuals and communities to participate in spiritual truths. I've often said I love when we do communion at the end of services that I preach because even if I totally botch the message, you will be able to see the beauty and grace of Jesus in the bread and the cup. Communion is a great way to save a bad sermon. So in order to succinctly answer this question, what exactly is communion? I think what I want to do

is I want to go over the five titles that the Bible uses for communion and draw out some applications. I'm going to try and go through these quickly, hopefully, because I want to get some more time in the why and the how. So five titles we find in Scripture for communion. The first is the Lord's Supper. We see this in 1 Corinthians 11, verse 20. When you meet together, Paul says, you are not really interested in the Lord's Supper. We're going to get to the Corinthians in a little bit. Paul doesn't seem very happy with him, but this is a title that the early church uses for communion. What's beautiful about the Lord's Supper is that what Jesus does in the Lord's Supper is he institutes a new meal that replaces a very familiar meal

to the Jewish community. See, when Jesus first ordained the act of communion, he did so on the night where him and his followers were celebrating Passover. Jesus in the Lord's Supper is moving forward God's redemptive plan from Israel to the church. Jesus meticulously crafted this final meal with his disciples. If you've ever read the story about the night that the Lord's Supper happened for the first time, it's kind of like a spy movie. Jesus tells his disciples, like, hey, go into this town and look for a guy with a pot and follow him and all of the stuff's gonna be set up, right? It's, like, really cryptic. But, like, it shows that Jesus put so much thought and preparation into setting up this Passover meal so that he could redefine for his disciples. Right before he went to the cross,

he could redefine for them what this meal was all about. The Lord's Supper was moving forward God's redemptive plan from the old covenant to the new covenant. Passover was all about looking back to Yahweh, freeing Israel from slavery in Egypt and awaiting their ultimate savior promised by their prophets. Jesus takes this meal and he transforms it into a new meal, the Lord's Supper. And this emphasizes the ultimate fulfillment of God's saving work. When Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper, he was saying, your awaited salvation has come through me. I am the ultimate Passover lamb who won't just bring earthly salvation to Israel from physical enemies, but I will bring eternal salvation to the whole world from spiritual enemies. Jesus moving forward, the redemptive plan of God. It reimagines what salvation really is all about. And it looks forward to his future salvation.

In Passover, Passover looked backwards to God setting Israel free from Egypt and it looked forward to a coming Messiah. Communion, the Lord's Supper, it has both a looking back and a looking forward. Now we look back to Jesus who is our Passover lamb and we look forward to the marriage supper of the lamb when Jesus will return and he will have this meal with us once again. Listen to it in Matthew chapter 26, verse 29. Jesus says, So the Lord's Supper communion, it's about looking backwards to the cross, what Jesus did through his death, burial, and resurrection. It's about thinking that he is the new Passover lamb, the Passover lamb that became the sacrifice for our sins once and for all. And it's also about looking forward to a future salvation. We're getting ready to turn our attention to Advent.

And Advent is all about if Jesus came the first time like the prophets promised, then he will come the second time like he promised us. The Lord's Supper is both a looking back and a looking forward. It demonstrates God's plan of salvation through Jesus, the ultimate Passover lamb. It unifies the old and new covenants and prophetically looks forward to his final salvation when he will bring heaven to earth once and for all. Second title of communion in the Scriptures is the breaking of bread. We see this in Acts 2, 42. It says, They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship and to the breaking of bread and to prayer. Almost all theologians believe that this title, breaking of bread, was a title for communion. It doesn't really make sense to say fellowship and breaking of bread

unless the breaking of bread signified something specific and tangible that they were doing. This title, breaking of bread, it emphasizes Christ's sacrificial death to secure our salvation and join us together in a new multi-ethnic family of God from every tribe, language, and tongue. Jesus, when he instituted this meal, he took the bread and he broke it. He said, This is my body, which is broken for you. This title reminds us of the cost that this meal took in order to be instituted, that Christ's body had to be broken for us in order for us to be invited to this table. God made Jesus, who knew no sin, to be an offering for our sins so that we can sit at the table. We can come to the table and receive grace and mercy and forgiveness

and reconciled relationships with one another. Breaking of bread reminds us that Christ is hosting a meal and he's inviting you to the table and the cost of that meal was his very life. Think about, I mean, just think about how much it means to you, unless you're like the most introverted human being of all time. Think about how much it means to you when someone invites you over to their home for a meal. Think about how significant it is. You get there and they've totally prepared everything. They've thought about everything. They've answered all of your questions. They've got appetizers, right? Like it just makes you feel loved, accepted, wanted. And this is what Jesus is doing at communion, except the cost of the meal with his very own body and blood. Jesus is inviting you to his table

and he was willing to pay the ultimate sacrifice. And this is one of those ones, I love emphasizing the communal aspect of communion, but this is one of those ones I really want you to think about personally. Jesus, his body was broken and his blood was shed so that you could be invited to this table. Like personalize that for a minute. I don't know about you, but I tend to think, yeah, Jesus loved the whole world. No, Jesus loved you. And he invites you to this table at the cost of his very body and blood. The breaking of bread, the Lord's Supper. I skipped three slides. That's not good. Number three, the Eucharist. Anybody grow up with this title, Eucharist? Okay, it's a bit fancier. Nothing to be afraid of. Just comes from the Greek word for thanksgiving.

In 1 Corinthians 11, verse 23, for I pass on to you what I received. The Lord himself on the night when he was betrayed, he took some bread and he gave thanks to God for it. Then he broke it. Eucharist just comes from the Greek word for thanksgiving. It reminds us that the communion table, the Lord's Supper was instituted at the end of a very long meal around a table. There's things to give thanks for. And although there are somber undertones on the night of the first communion, Jesus gave thanks. This is something that we can do with celebration in our hearts. We give thanks to God for who Jesus is and for what he did. Communion is intended to be reflective, but it's also intended to be filled with thanksgiving. Jesus gave thanks for the opportunity

to participate in this meal with one another. We should be thankful when we come to the table. We should look around the room and give thanksgiving for the people that God has brought around this table. In many churches I have been a part of and even communions that I have led sometimes tend to overemphasize the weightiness of communion. And I think that's important. That's an important element, but it's both and. It's something that we should have joyful attitudes in our heart towards that we should have thanksgiving for. So we've got the Lord's Supper, the breaking of bread, Eucharist, the weirdest one of all, the love feast. Everybody loves the love feast. We see this in Jude 12. If you've never read Jude before, don't worry. I'm sure you're not alone. I heard one pastor call it

one of the Bible's deep tracks, which I thought was awesome. Do yourself a favor, read Jude sometime, but they use this term, the love feast, to refer to communion. And this term for communion is one that has been used historically by the expression of churches that we are a part of. The Brethren Church, the Anabaptist Church have often used this term, the love feast. The reason they do that is because they have intentionally chosen to include both a meal and, drum roll please. Thank you, thank you. Foot washing with the bread and the cup. Much of, so they, this love feast is kind of this all-encompassing, a full meal, the bread broken, the cup shared, and then a foot washing. And much of the church throughout history has viewed Christ's invitation to wash feet as kind of this cultural expression

of sacrificial love, that Jesus is inviting us to be sacrificially loving towards one another, and the foot washing thing was just a cultural example that he used. But, what if it was actually an invitation for all believers throughout history to practice the most challenging aspect of the Christian life, which is to humbly serve and to be served? Listen to Jesus in John chapter 13. On this night that he instituted the Lord's Supper, after he washed his disciples' feet, he says this, if I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you also should do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him.

If you know these things, blessed are you who do something like them. Okay, blessed are you if you do them. Now, I don't have time to give this view justice, and we have actually intentionally planned an entire special service around giving this view justice. There should be an insert in your flyer. I would love for you, if this interests you at all, even if it doesn't interest you at all, if you think this is crazy, I would challenge you, I would even dare you to come to our fall feast. We are bringing in a brethren theologian, a seminary professor who is far smarter than I could ever be, and he is going to talk about the significance of the love feast, of why our churches historically have included a full meal and a foot washing

in at least one or two communions a year. We're gonna share a meal together. We're gonna listen to a teaching from a theological scholar. I know some of you love the heady stuff. Dare you, I dare you. I don't know if you can tell, but I'm nervous about people coming to this thing, so I'm daring everybody. I dare you. And what we're gonna do is we're gonna share a meal together. We're gonna listen to a teaching, and we're going to have an opportunity to wash feet. It will be optional. So you can come for the meal and the teaching, and then you can just watch other people wash feet, which might be weirder than washing feet. I'm not sure. And this is a very new cultural experience for a lot of us. All I can tell you

is from personal experience, I have participated in a few foot washing services, and they are some of the most powerful, moving, emotional, challenging services I've ever been a part of. So I don't have time to do it justice. Someone else is gonna do it justice in a few weeks. Please make plans to attend. Finally, communion. Communion is probably my favorite term for the Lord's Supper. It comes from 1 Corinthians 10, verses 16 and 17. Paul says, when we bless the cup at the Lord's table, are we not sharing in the blood of Christ? Let's not read past that. That's a significant, that is a significant claim of Paul. Are we not sharing in the blood of Christ? And when we break the bed, are we not sharing in the body of Christ? The Greek word there for sharing,

many other translations use communion. It is koinonia. This is deeply, this is a deep and intimate participatory word. We are invited to commune with one another and with the body and blood of Christ in some supernatural and mysterious way. This is significant. In the Western church, we struggle with understanding how spiritual things and physical things overlap. Am I the only one? We often consider them separate spheres that don't overlap with one another. This is platonic and not biblical, okay? So when we take communion, we are invited into an intimate time of fellowship with God and with one another. We are reminded that even when we struggle to get along or be united, look at verse 17. And though we are many, we all eat from one loaf of bread showing that we are one body.

So no matter how hard relationships get in this room, especially around election time, no matter how many external factors cause us to want to divide from one another, we are invited to come to the same table and take from the same loaf of bread, which is a representation that we are one body, unified around Christ, body broken for us and his blood shed for us. If we can't unify on anything else, God help us if we can't unify on the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. Let's say that communion is a physical, spiritual, and prophetic remembering of Christ's body with Christ's body. Something we do physically that has spiritual implications and future prophetic. We're looking forward to the return of Christ. When we participate in remembering Christ's body with Christ's body. Which leads us to the why of communion.

And this was the thrust of the question I received. I loved it. It was so great. She said, of all of the ordinances, of all the things Jesus could have asked us to do on a regular basis, why not like remember the poor together on a regular basis? Why this meal? What's so significant about communion? And as I thought about this particular question, pastorally, like, Jesus, what are you trying to do here for us? What is the significance of this thing being a primary thing that you invite your people to do? I realized that it is very easy for me, probably just me, only me, I'm sure, to become distracted and to feel disconnected from God and from one another. I don't know about you, but it's my experience with most of my friend groups

and family members that life is so fast-paced and busy. It's so easy for us to become distracted. It's so easy for us to feel disconnected from God and one another. God is not visible. He's not tangible. We can't sit in a chair beside him. And so it's so easy for us to feel disconnected from God. People are frustrating and difficult. They rarely do what we want them to do or say what we want them to say. And when relationships become difficult, it can be easier just to let them go than to fight for them. And this often leads us into isolation or echo chambers. When relationships become hard, we just let them go. And that either means that we're all by ourself or we're all by ourself with a group of people that think exactly like we think,

believe exactly like we believe, do things exactly the way we do them. And I think communion is given to us as a solution to these problems because imagine how powerful a group of diverse people united around and submitted to the slain lamb who was victorious over sin, death, and the grave could have on the world around them that is so distracted and disconnected. If we were not distracted or disconnected, imagine the witness to the watching world that we could have. And I think that's one of the primary reasons that Jesus gave us communion. He gave it to us to fight against distraction and to fight against disconnecting from God and from one another. So first, let's unpack distraction. In communion, Jesus brings forward the beautiful rhythm seen in the Jewish calendar. The Jewish culture was built

around regular religious festivals that were intended every single year, year in and year out, to remind them of God's faithful love for them. Passover was probably the primary of the religious festivals. It was to root them in the history of God's redemptive work in their people. And when Jesus invites the church to replace that with this regular rhythm of gathering around the table together, to remember his sacrificial love, he's bringing forth this rhythm, this repetition, something that we should do intentionally and regularly. it's meant to keep our eyes focused on the main thing, not to get distracted by the worries or cares of this world that all find their meaning and purpose in Jesus. Communion is meant to be a regular rhythm that keeps us from getting distracted. We are so prone to wander. We are so prone

to make things other than Christ, the center of our theology. We are so prone to divide over things other than what is primary to divide over. And communion invites us to regularly keep our eyes focused on Christ's body and his blood. It's intended to keep us from getting distracted. It's intended to keep us from feeling disconnected from Jesus. I cannot read this passage in 1 Corinthians 10 enough, and I just invite you to wrestle with it. When we bless the cup at the Lord's table, are we not sharing in the blood of Christ, having communion, koinonia with the blood of Christ? And when we break the bread, aren't we sharing in, having communion, koinonia, fellowship, intimacy with the body of Christ? Communion is intended to give us this connection to Jesus. Because we can't touch

or see God, it can be easy to feel disconnected from him. But the Christian faith, excuse me, the Christian faith is not only a communal faith, but it's also an embodied faith. The Christian faith is a whole person faith. We are physical human beings, and we tend to separate the spiritual and the physical, but that is not a biblical concept. The Bible seems to claim that we get some kind of, we can somehow physically experience the presence of Christ through the elements of communion when we come to them in faith. This koinonia language is radical. In the church, for the first thousand years, we're united around the mystery that somehow, in some mysterious way, Jesus chooses to be present in the elements of communion when a group of believers take them in faith. Now, for those of you

that are theology nerds, for those of you that maybe have come from the Catholic Church, I know that you're probably feeling slightly uncomfortable right about now. That's okay. You're allowed to feel that way. And I wanna be careful because we rational Western Christians are not great with mystery. We don't do good with not having answers to our questions. We want logical answers that fit into clean theological systems. But if you go back and you read Christ's interactions with his disciples, he seems to be pretty okay with not giving them all of the answers to all of their questions. He seems to be pretty okay with letting them just experience the mystery of his kingdom and he gives them the answers that they need when they need them. But there's mystery, there's beauty in the Christian faith.

And I think many streams of Christianity like the one I grew up in were comfortable shrinking communion down to purely just a physical symbol, just an illustration, just a reminder. The more I read the Scriptures and think about this idea, the more I'm concerned that we might be missing out on some depth and beauty of what Jesus wants us to experience in communion. I'm not going to answer the theological question of whether or not Christ is present in the communion elements when he becomes present, what that looks like. That's when the church started to divide. They started to divide when they started to try and answer what exactly it means. All I know is that Christ says, that Paul says here in 1 Corinthians, that we are somehow sharing in Christ's blood. We are somehow

sharing having koinonia with Christ's body. And I'm not going to try and explain that. I don't know what that means. But I think we should come to the communion table a bit more expectantly than this is just some random wafer that I'm going to take and remember Christ's body. Let's come expectantly to the table. And in here, again, this is the, okay. our church, we don't have a clear position on what exactly this means. We don't define it because the most heartbreaking thing about communion is that it is the one thing, the primary thing that was intended to unite us and it has become a thing that has divided many churches throughout history. There are multiple different tables and denominations of people that can and cannot participate in communion, even if they've submitted to the

lordship of Jesus because we define communion differently than you define communion differently than you define communion. I'm not trying to make a clear definition here. I'm just trying to say, what if Jesus wants something more for us at the table? I'd invite you individually, prayerfully, consider what God might want to do for you in giving you some mystery of his real presence with you in the communion elements when you come with expectant faith. We feel disconnected from God, we feel disconnected from one another. Again, the more I've studied this week, the more heartbroken I have become over church history because, again, the thing that Jesus gave us to unite us with one another has become a tool that the enemy has used to divide us. and it didn't start that far after Jesus instituted it.

Let's look at the Corinthian church, right? 1 Corinthians 10 verse 17, but in the following instructions, I cannot praise you for it sounds as if more harm than good is done when you meet together. For I hear that there are divisions among you when you meet as a church and to some extent I believe it but of course there must be divisions among you so that you who have God's approval will be recognized. When you meet together you are not really interested in the Lord's supper. For some of you hurry to eat your own meal without sharing with others and as a result some go hungry while others get drunk. Don't you have your own homes for eating and drinking or do you really want to disgrace God's church and shame the poor? What am I

supposed to say to you? Do you want me to praise you? I will certainly not praise you for this. The thing that's supposed to unite us so quickly becomes a thing that divides us in the Corinthian churches they were breaking into factions and they were prioritizing people who had status and influence around the communion table. What they were doing might have resembled communion but Paul seems to warn them that this isn't actually communion at all. See the patterns of table fellowship in the early Christian church it was one of the most radical things about them. Table fellowship was so significant in the first century. Who was allowed around your table and when people walked by your house and they saw who was sitting at your table they would make very clear distinctions about what was true

about you. And the early Christian church was radical about welcoming people from every tribe, language, and tongue. Jesus was known as a drunkard and a sinner because he ate with tax collectors and sinners. Communion was intended that we were all welcome around the table together. Everyone is equal at the foot of the cross. Everyone from every social, economic, or racial class, we are all welcomed at the table. We are all invited to take from the same bread and cup. Communion is intended to regularly remind us what unites us. It's far more important than the cultural factors that attempt to divide us. Everyone who submits to Jesus is at equal standing at the table. So, in summary, why do we take communion? I would say that communion is an intentional, embodied rhythm that connects us physically

with Jesus and with one another. I was very intentionally vague in that definition so that we can all come to our own conclusions about what exactly that looks like. So, finally, how? How do we come to the communion table? Well, I think it's really important that what communion is and why Jesus gave it to us should impact how we participate. So, I crammed four things into a three-thing list because I'm trying to get better at preaching not as long. So, we'll see how this goes. The first, when we approach the communion table, we should do so reflectively. 1 Corinthians 10 verse 27, Paul gives these instructions to the Corinthians who were just not even really taking communion. They were taking something that looked like communion, but it had so been removed from the point of

what Jesus gave it to them for that Paul says, you're not even really concerned with the Lord's Supper. He gives them these instructions. So, anyone who eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord unworthily is guilty of sinning against the body and blood of Jesus. That is why you should examine yourself before eating the bread and drinking the cup. We should come to communion reflectively. We should allow it to be a regular rhythm for us to come before the presence of God and to be honest about where we're at in our relationship with him. This does not mean, and this is the type of communion that I grew up with, this does not mean that if you sinned last night, you shouldn't come to the table. It's an invitation to reflect on your life and

consider the sin and broken relationships that have creeped into your life and acknowledge those before God and receive his grace and mercy with thanksgiving. There is something significant about broken relationships though in communion. I think it is this opportunity for us to reflect on who in the church, who of our brothers and sisters in Christ do we have something against? Who have we gossiped about? Who have we slandered about? Who have we gotten fights with and not forgiven? I think that communion is an opportunity for us to think about the reconciliation that needs to happen before we participate in the body and blood of Jesus. I love what Pastor Sam Rogers, he's been here to preach a couple times, a good friend of mine. I consider him my pastor. He preached on communion and he

said this, if you feel conviction, it means that you're ready for the table because a person who is not close to God does not have a problem with their sin. So do so reflectively, but as you are confronted with your sin, with your struggle, with your failures before God, this is not something to feel shame or guilt, this is something to give to the Lord in confession and repentance and come to the table eagerly and expectantly for his grace and mercy to flow over you. So reflectively, second, regularly and corporately, this is where I fit two into one. We shouldn't let communion become an isolated experience and this is the reality of the American church is that it's hard to do communion in a way that really resembles the first century church. We sit in rows, we come and we get little wafers and little juice and communion made it, or communion, COVID made it even harder.

But we should do our best as much as we can to make sure that it doesn't just become a you and God experience, it is a communal experience. We should look around the room with thanksgiving of all of the people that God has brought into this room specifically. We should do so corporately. We should do so regularly. Again, the American church makes this step difficult. We do our best to have it pretty frequently here at Canvas and we could definitely do better at making it more regular and more corporate. I'm going to think about this more often and how we can be creative with this. But I would say, don't just limit your experience of communion to Sunday. Some of the most powerful experiences I have had around the body of Christ, the blood of Christ has

been in living rooms with small groups of people. Think about when you meet together with other brothers and sisters in Christ, how you might remember Christ's body broken for you and his blood shed. Do so regularly, do so corporately, and lastly, do so expectantly. I think many of us, myself, at the top of this list, have become so familiar with communion that it's lost some of its mystery and its beauty. We should come to the table with expectation of whatever it is that Paul means by koinonia with Christ's body and koinonia with Christ's blood. Again, I'm not going to define what that means, but that's what the text says, that there is some type of communion, some type of fellowship with Christ's body and blood when we come to the table expectantly. I heard Francis Chan

talking about this on a podcast this week, and he used the illustration of the woman who had been bleeding for 12 years in Luke chapter 8, and he said, I like to think about this in communion, when people are so used to just coming to it like it's a symbol, and he's like, I've talked to people who have now reimagined what God might want to do in koinonia with his body and blood, and they said that their experiences have changed at the communion table, that there's something mysterious and supernatural that happens at the communion table for them now, that they come to it expectantly, that they come to it differently. And he said it reminds him of the woman who was bleeding for 12 years. You read that story, and there's a mob of people

everywhere, and this woman reaches out and touches Jesus in faith, and Jesus says, whoa, whoa, whoa, everybody stop. Somebody touched me. And what do his disciples say? Yeah, everybody's touching you, Jesus. Like, we are in a crowded street full of people. Everyone is touching you. And Jesus says, no, someone touched me with faith. Someone reached out to me with intention, with purpose. And I just, I love that illustration. I think that there's something unique, something special that Jesus might want to do for those of us who come to the communion table expecting something more than just the mental exercise of remembering his sacrifice. Something supernatural. Again, I'm not a charismatic person. I don't know what that means. I'm just trying to be faithful to the text, and the text seems to say that God wants to do

something in you and through you at the communion table. Koinonia, fellowship with his body, fellowship with his blood. So, hopefully, this message has helped all of us increase or deepen our understanding of what communion is, why Jesus preserved it for us, and how we should approach the table. I hope this fresh perspective will deepen your appreciation for this important ordinance. If what I have said has caused more questions than answers, send me the email, but it's caused more questions than answers for me as well. And I think that Jesus is okay with that. I think sometimes the Christian faith is mysterious and supernatural, and we so want every answer. We so want to check every box. And I'm just, I'm comfortable right now with saying, I'm not going to check this box. I'm just going to start

coming more reflectively, more regularly and corporately, and more expectantly that God might do something exceedingly, abundantly, more than I could ever ask, think, or imagine through a stale piece of bread and probably out-of-date juice. Don't quote me on that. Jesus can heal a leopard if he can turn a little boy's lunch into a meal for 5,000 people. What might he be able to do for us if we come to it in faith with this little wafer and this little cup of juice? Let's pray.
