A SUMMER'S JOURNEY: Church as Family
2024-07-29
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I1dEwelbwUQ

Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Corey. So, Tish read to us this morning from Colossians, and it said there was a... I think if I click her out, I have the control this morning. We good? I apparently don't have as much control as I thought. Is that going to make it move? There we go. We're talking... Right, so deep divisions in a strong community in Philemon is what we're going to talk about this morning. My mic is not working. I'm going to yell. We're having technical difficulties here, apparently, aren't we? I'm on green.

Should I get a mic? Hello? Are we all here now? Okay, great. Right, we're going to talk about Philemon this morning, but we read a... Tish read us a passage from Colossians that said, there's no slave nor free. That sentiment expressed in Galatians, which a letter that had been written several years earlier that they would have read, says there's no Jew nor Greek, there's no male nor female. Do we believe that Paul genuinely could not tell the difference between men and women? Or that he could... There was no slave nor free? No, we don't think that, because moments later, he gives instructions about how slaves should behave and how free should behave and what women should do and what men should do. He was talking about the primary divisions in the church, right? When he said

barbarians and Scythians, those were the two primary ethnic divisions that were there in Colossae, to whom he was writing. Today, he would have said there's no Republicans or Democrats. There's no black or white. There's no pick your division, right? So, yes, sir. Okay. I can put down the mic. We good? All right. So, he's talking about social strata. He's talking about dignity. He's talking about access to authority and power. He's saying within the church, we all stand on level ground before the throne of grace side by side. There's no one who's of more importance than the other. And it's not just side by side. It's in a group, right? We're here as a family. But we're all together below adopted as sons of God. There's a term called viathesia that I threatened Ryan that I would use.

It was a Roman idea of adoption as sons. And it's the metaphor that Paul uses repeatedly. Viathesia was, the emperor could grab the lowliest slave out of the worst salt mine and instantly raise him to be his adopted son that could not be revoked. With the full force of Roman law behind him and the full wealth of that family now at his disposal, because he'd been adopted as a son. And that's the term that Paul keeps using when he talks about, there's no Jew nor Greek, no slave, we're all adopted as sons, right? In this family together. I know that in this church, there are people who knew each other before they came together as Christians in this body. And we were from very different social strata. It could have been in high school, there were cliques, it could have been in the

workplace, a great deal, difference in education or wealth divided us. But when you come here, we're on level ground. And it's incumbent upon us to overcome any sort of latent issues that divide us. Because we have to stand levelly, all serving a single God and a single purpose. That's what binds us together. I don't know if you guys remember, a year ago, we, we, it was just after Blazing Hope, a year ago, we had a little handout and we talked about the meaning of koinonia to the early church. I don't know, Jason's heard it twice. This is the third time. Here we go. So koinonia was the term that the early church used. The word literally means shares in or partnership. What they used it to mean was they grew the meaning of it. They held all things in common. They took part in the body and

blood of Christ together at communion. They held that in common together. The great commission to reach the world, they did that together, equal footing. They shared their money together. They shared their houses together. All things they held in common because in the koinonia, that they held all things in common, all men were equal. It was one vine growing fruit, right? That was the early church. Now, we have, Ryan put this quote up a couple of weeks ago. I'm not saying from Austin Fisher, I'm not saying all our differences are inconsequential. Some of them are very consequential. But if Jesus only holds together the inconsequential differences, that's not very impressive, right? That's absolutely the case. So we've talked a lot this summer about how Paul said, don't fight over secondary theology. Let's all stand together before the cross and then work out jointly in our

group, in our koinonia, the meaning of how we do this together. Let's work out our fellowship, our salvation and fear and trembling together. That's true. And then there are those moments when there are real differences, right? There's the moment when my incentives don't align with Eric's, right? When my interests and Ryan's are totally different. Well, at that point, we have to readjust our interests. We have to find new incentives. We have to find a way to put our focus on Christ so that we are together again on equal footing before the throne. There's also times when the morality of Christ or the ethics of the church might not align with what's socially the norm now or what's legal, right? That's not new to us. That was a common problem in the early church. They constantly were having to deal with

particularly slavery was a big issue. In Rome, slaves were very common. It wasn't just common, it was legal. And in the church, this was 200, and this letter to Philemon that we're going to talk about today was written 225 years before the purpose-built, first purpose-built church building was built. Until that time, the church met as famously in catacombs or caves where they could hide, but most commonly, they met in houses. Who has a house big enough to let everybody come and join him? The rich guy, right? So very common, we know about Lydia, we know about Philemon, to whom this letter is written. The wealthy members of the congregation opened their house, and the church came and the koinonia occurred in their house. Well, those large houses before the Advent of machinery and electricity, how do you run a big house? They did it with slaves. So you have these wealthy members of a

community that owned slaves. That would be mind-boggling to us. A lot of stuff we do would be mind-boggling to them, but we're going to stick with this one, right? So they have all these slaves, and in the early church, we know that Onesimus, who is the slave in this passage, the letter of Philemon is from Paul to the guy that hosts the Colossian church in his house, Philemon, because one of Philemon's slaves has run away, and his name's Onesimus. So Paul's talking to Philemon about Onesimus, right? Those are our characters. And Onesimus has run away to hang with Paul. Well, that's awkward, right? So, but this wasn't the first time it had happened. Onesimus was a slave. We know that John, the apostle John, his two primary disciples, sort of throughout his life that grew and together, side by side, really led the

church after his death, were Polycarp and Ignatius. Polycarp, that's a slave name. Ignatius isn't. The church had raised a slave next to a citizen, side by side, and they in the church served on equal footing. That was common. Luke, I don't know if you guys know this, Luke, that's a slave name. The guy who wrote the book of Acts and the gospel of Luke, most likely a slave. Most slaves, most doctors in the Roman Empire were slaves. Here we have a guy with a slave name. It means bright. Luke means smart, right? He's a smart guy. Polycarp means fruitful. Onesimus means productive. They all had these pragmatic names that they were given by their owners. So Luke was named smart guy, and he was a smart guy. And he was serving alongside Paul all the time in the gospel. He delivered to us

Acts and the gospel of Luke. So this was very common in the church, but how do you get to the point where you can serve side by side like that? That's a real trick. The specific conflict, I want to walk through it a little further. Philemon, as I said, he hosts the Colossian house in his church. Colossae is in southern Turkey. And the law at the time, so Onesimus has run away, and he's found his way to Paul, who was under house arrest in prison. It's unlikely that the penal system would have brought them together. It's unlikely that Onesimus would have been arrested and jailed with Paul because Paul's in a private house. So if you've heard that, that's probably not true. But he did find his way to Paul. The most likely explanation is he'd heard Paul's teaching in the letter of Galatians. There's

no bond nor free. Onesimus is into that, right? He's heard that he's probably seen Luke or heard of Luke, and he wants to be in on this. We know that Epaphras, who was the overseer of the church at Galatia, the church in Colossae, we know that Epaphras was with Paul in prison. So it's entirely likely that Onesimus had run away to find the guys that had told him that he didn't have to be a slave. And now Epaphras and Paul have to figure out what to do with Philemon because the dude has been wronged. Strongly, legally wronged. The Athenian code, which had been enforced in all the city-states around the Aegean Sea for hundreds of years, had been adopted by Rome. And that code said, if you find a runaway slave, you're legally obliged to send him back. You have to. It's the law. You're aiding and abetting

or actually thieving and liable to punishment. That's one thing Paul has to do. He's a Roman citizen. He has to send the slave back. Thing two he has to do, in Deuteronomy 22, 15, sorry, 23, 15, God had told Moses, you shall not give back to his master the slave that has escaped from his master to you. This specific instance, you don't give him back. He may dwell with you in your midst in the place where he chooses within one of your gates where it seems best to him. You shall not oppress him. Paul is a student of the Old Testament and dedicated to the law. He's a citizen of the Roman, of Rome, and he's reliable to the law. And these are diametrically opposed. What's a man to do? And on top of that,

he has the teachings of Christ. Christ said, you will love your brother. They will know you by your love. No greater love has a man than this, than he lays down his life for his friend, which would be what would happen, by the way, if you broke Roman law, right? Who's your friend? The friend's the one who weighs my commandment. What's my commandment? Love one another. So in this cycle, there's no room for the disproportionate social hierarchy of slavery. So Paul has to both send it back and not send it back and bring everyone to love each other while they're doing it. That's a tall order. How's he going to do that? How do we deal with these kinds of conflicts in the church when they arise? How do we maintain our koinonia? That's what Philemon has been preserved for us to understand? Because Paul,

in an inspired moment, wrote a very good letter. You don't really think of the Bible as the place to go to write really solid, almost passive-aggressive, highly persuasive emails. But it is a great model, okay? He's not really passive-aggressive because he means every word of it. So with all that background, let's actually read Philemon. And remember, when this was written, there were no chapter and verse divisions. None. The chapters that we read were put in place in the early 1200s by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The verses we read were put in place by the University of Paris in the mid-1500s. And they were there so that scholars and translators could reference Scripture like we do for each other. You can point to it quickly. But it does not provide any significance or meaning. If you

ever think a chapter break means that one thought stopped and another one started, that is not true in any way. So when we read Philemon, we're just going to read it as a letter, the way Philemon would have received it, okay? So I have the clicker, right? Here we go. The clicker's not working. Take me to the next slide. Please. There we go. All right. So Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy, our brother, to Philemon, the beloved friend and fellow laborer, to the beloved Apphia and Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the church in your house, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God, making mention of you always in my prayers, hearing of your love for which you have toward the Lord Jesus and toward

all the saints. That the sharing of your faith may become effective by the acknowledgement of every good thing which is in you, Christ Jesus, in Christ Jesus. For we have great joy and consolation in your love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed by you, brother. Next slide. Therefore, though I might be very bold in Christ to command you what is fitting, yet for love's sake, I rather appeal to you, being such a one as Paul, this aged, now also prisoner of Jesus Christ, I appeal to you for my son Anesimus, for whom I have begotten, whom I have begotten while I was in my chains, who once was unprofitable to you. Remember, his name means profitable, so that's a pun. Who was unprofitable to you, but now is profitable to you and to me. I'm sending him back. You,

therefore, receive him, him that is my heart, whom I wish to keep with me, that you, on your behalf, that on your behalf, he might minister to me in my chains for the gospel. Next. But without your consent, I want to do nothing, that your good deed might not be by compulsion, as it were, but voluntary. Perhaps he departed for a while for this very purpose, that you might receive him forever back, no longer a slave, but more than a slave now, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in flesh and in the Lord, then if you count me as a partner, receive him as you would me. But if he's wronged you or owes you anything, put that on my account. I, Paul, am writing this with my own hand. I will repay, not to mention you owe me everything, even your own self, besides.

Yes, brother, let me have joy from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in the Lord, having confidence in your obedience, I write to you knowing that you will do even more than I say. But meanwhile, also prepare a guest room for me, for I trust that through your prayers, I shall be granted to you. Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow laborers. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. All right, so that's quite a letter. And we're going to go back through it in a minute and tear it up. But for the moment, I want to point out one other thing that we have to keep in mind, and that is the, this is a necessary subtopic of reading Philemon. And that is the unfortunate fact that Philemon has throughout

the history of the church periodically been used as a defense of slavery. Okay, how is that possible, you ask, having just read the letter? It's possible because if you'll think back and look, nowhere in that letter does Paul say anything about what he thinks about slavery. He never actually says the words, you should let him free, right? He doesn't say that. He says only how they stand before God and what their duties are to one another as Christians. He reflects no ethical opinion of what slavery is and how the church should think about it. And so people who are open the Bible to find the answer to the question they want. Can I keep slaves? Oh, Paul didn't say I didn't, right? And they go over to Colossians 3.22 where it says, slaves obey your masters. And they say, look at that. The Bible supports

slavery. If you ever open up the Bible wanting a specific answer to a specific question and you think you've seen it and stop reading, you're wrong. Don't do that, right? You open the Bible to see what God's saying. You don't give him my answer to my question, am I right? Don't do that. You open the Bible to see what God is saying and you search it thoroughly and you talk to your brothers. One thing we do, we are occasions of grace to one another. And when you're wondering about a complex question where your interests are not aligned with someone else, talk to a brother. Go through the Scripture together, okay? That's what you're to do. So, but they did stop reading the Bible and at times people knew good and well there was other stuff there and they made edited versions of the Bible that took out all the stuff

that said slavery was bad, which is two-thirds of the Old Testament, right? It's a lot. Much of the Old Testament is about the Hebrew slave people being liberated and how the oppressor was now under the thumb of God and they now serve him only. And in the New Testament, verses before it says, slaves obey your master, it said there's no slave nor free before Christ, right? Everyone's equal. And just after it, it says, Onesimus in Colossians 4.9. First of all, in Colossians 4.1, this will happen if you don't observe, if you pay attention to the chapter break, you might stop reading. It says, slaves obey your master. And the next thing it says is, masters, love your slaves like God loves you. Your master who's died for you, right? It's a legal but clear indicator, legally defensible but clear indicator, of how you

should fall into a relationship which, if followed, would just make slavery impossible, right? And the next thing it says is, Colossians 4.9, Onesimus is our faithful and dear brother who's one of you, not a runaway slave, not unfaithful, but one of you, right? So why is Onesimus mentioned in Colossians, if you ask yourself? Well, that's an excellent question. The Colossian church met in Philemon's home, where Onesimus served as a slave, which is no doubt where he heard the gospel, where they inspired him to run away, ironically. That's our best guess. We don't know all the details, but that makes sense. And the names at the beginning, when it says Paul and Timothy, our brother, that means Paul is dictating and Timothy's holding the reed. They didn't use quills, they used reeds, right? So Timothy's writing while Paul writes, which is why there's that part in the middle that Paul says, hey, I'm writing

this with my own hand. He had big sloppy handwriting. We've talked about how he was, his body was battered and he shook when he, so his handwriting is really messy, we're told, in other Gospels. But at the end of Colossians, he also writes with his own hand, hey, this is Paul writing, okay? So that's common. So in both letters, Paul is dictating to Timothy. In both letters, Epaphras is with him. In both letters, the same list of other people are serving with him in prison, where he's, they were written at the same time, to the same church. One letter was written to the church, one letter was written to the church host, right? There's scholars, some scholars disagree and say that Philemon might have arrived a little bit early. But nonetheless, in Colossians, when they read about the relationships of slaves and masters,

they are keenly aware of the real and present conflict going on in this church between a slave and his master. That's the context in which they're hearing that. So that's the context in which we should listen to it. And he says, when he's talking about slaves and masters in Colossians, Onesimus is our dear, faithful brother who is one of you. Why is that? Well, we're told in Philemon that Onesimus, when he came to Paul, committed his life to Christ. He became a Christian. He became one of the saints, right? So this runaway slave is now one of those who are supposed to be in the koinonia with us, which is what makes Paul's job so much more complicated. Also, I will note two things about this. Why do we have this letter? This letter was written to Philemon, and the pronouns

in it are very interesting. In the beginning, it's y'all, y'all, and in the closing, it's y'all, and everything in the middle is you, right? So he says, hey, Philemon, I'm jumping ahead a little bit, but hey, Philemon, tell your wife and your son hi, and this is for, you know, the people in the church too. And then he just talks to Philemon in that letter, because it's all very personal. It's a problem that he's going through. And at the end, he says, the grace of God be with you all, and I want to come visit you all. But Philemon, I want to stay in your house, singular, right? So there's this, he's talking to Philemon with an indication that he's expecting Philemon to let everybody know about it, right? Now, he can't make him do that. And what could have happened is when

Philemon read this letter, he could have wadded it up and thrown it in the fireplace, right? That's a bad idea. He says to himself, I've been publicly wronged. I've been robbed. You're asking me to let this dude now infect the rest of my staff with the idea that they can just run away? No, right? I'm not going to do that. He could have said that. But he preserved this letter and shared it with people to the point that it's read throughout the Christian church, throughout the Roman Empire. What letters do you have that are preserved and shared with others after your death, right? The deeply important life-affecting letters. We have this letter because Philemon thought it was so significant that he kept it and shared it. So we can believe from that, that he did in fact

free Onesimus. There's also other evidence, and we'll come back to that. So this is a private letter. We are looking over a guy's shoulder as he reads about a personal conflict. But it's one that he deliberately shared with the church, in which he recognized the divine inspiration of God in the message that he was being given. And it became seminal information for how to treat slaves in the church, okay? And larger conflicts as well. So let's guess, we're going to go back and we're going to walk through this verse by verse and look at what Paul's actually saying. Paul, I'm a prisoner of whom? Rome? Prisoner of Christ. Well, that's interesting. He starts this out by saying, identifying with the people who are enslaved to a Lord. He's not identifying with Philemon's position. He's identifying with Onesimus's position. I'm a prisoner because of Christ. Tell your folks I said hi,

and you all in the church. So at this point, he's making it clear that he's hoping other people will hear the letter. I thank my God, making mention. Here he says, I feel very close and grateful for all that you've done because I've heard that your acts, you always have acts of true love. And he's setting Philemon up because he says, your love, your faith toward all the saints. And he's about to, in a few verses, tell him Onesimus is now a saint, right? So you now have to be faithful to him, which is going to be hard for Philemon. By the way, when it says love anywhere in here, it's agape love. It's not brotherly love. It's not us binding together in friendship. It's the divine love of God flowing through us to bear fruit, right? The love that's in you is now going to be expressed to all the saints,

he says to Philemon. He requests from God that the koinonia of Philemon's faith, that which they share in this joint endeavor, as they endeavor to spread the gospel together, that it'll take effect and be reflected. It'll reflect the fact that only in Christ is there anything of value in us. This is written to a rich guy. He has lots of things of value. One of them was Onesimus, and that was a sunk cost, right? And Paul's saying, you can't think of him as value. What's valuable in you? Christ. Everything of value you have is through Christ. That's the subtext here, right? Onesimus is wealthy, but he's going to be obliged to assent to this if he wants to stay in relationship with Paul, which is something else Paul will use for leverage in a few sentences.

You've always been good to me, says Paul. Your contribution to the koinonia, and there are twice in this verse that he actually references directly the koinonia that we're partners in this. This is one of them. It was in verse 6 and later in, I think, 17. Your partnership in the koinonia has put you in the role of paraclete, where it says comforter there. Paul is identifying, using his words carefully, to identify the work that Philemon has done with the promised comfort that would come via the Holy Spirit when Christ left. Promise to the apostles at Pentecost. He's saying, God promised us to comfort, you have comforted the church. And the subtle implication is, by inadvertently extending Onesimus to me to serve with me, you have comforted me, right? That's subtext here as well. And I want to go back to something that Ryan has said a couple of times, that you can only have this

kind of conversation with somebody you're already in relationship with. Paul couldn't have stormed in the door and said, let's think about this. What should we be doing here? That probably would have been thrown in the fire, right? Koinonia means being in relationship. So when those moments come, when there are schisms, when you recognize the division that society has put between us, you can talk it through, you can forgive, you can repent, and we can bring it back so that we're all standing side by side before the throne of grace, right? That relationship is essential. And Paul is referencing in these first seven verses, they have that relationship, man. Let's not tear it up, right? Which is, by the way, putting Paul between the oppressor and the oppression. He's stepping in to shield Onesimus with his person, very politely. And then he says directly, I could,

he doesn't say I have the authority to tell you to do it. He said, I'm so confident when Christ taught, I could tell you with authority. That's a big difference. In some of your Bibles, it says boldness. Like, I could do it with boldness, but am I going to do that? No, I'm going to appeal to you. Because as you know, I'm a very old prisoner. I'm the guy that's really living it. So there is some reason to listen to me. But just hear me out. In verse 10, I'm writing on behalf of Onesimus, which, by the way, Philemon would have known because we learned from Colossians that Tychius is the messenger boy that brought the letters, and he brought with him the runaway slave. So it was kind of like one of those movies where the policeman has to carry the slave back, you know, the runaway

guy back. Tychius was making sure Onesimus arrived, and he's bringing these letters. So Philemon would have seen his slave arrive. He would have had this letter, and he would have kind of known what it was about, right? So I'm writing on behalf of Onesimus. He was unprofitable to you, but now he is profitable. Why? He's doubly so because he's more valuable to the kingdom than he ever was to you, right? The value in him is what he now brings to the koinonia. Don't try to drag him back into your household and devalue him. Let him be part of the koinonia. Let him live in grace with all of us. That's what Paul's message is. I'm writing on behalf of Onesimus, and he's only useful. Again, his name means useful. He's only useful because I'm giving him back to you, and now he's doubly useful in the koinonia. He was just

property to you, but he's precious to me, says Paul. The subtext is harming him is going to harm me. That's Paul putting himself in a bold position between a guy with a legal right and the thing he has the legal right to, and saying, think this through, man. He doesn't come out and attack. He reasons, but he reasons while protecting the guy behind him. And I'm going to regard, he says, Philemon as a gift, an inadvertent gift, but a gift from you to me, and it's not a loss, therefore, to you. It's a meaningful gift from you to me, who, by the way, I'm suffering in chains on your behalf, right? Verse 14, he implies strongly that you, dude, are free to make him free, right? You can show him your goodness by executing it. Let us, everybody, see your goodness at work as you

release this slave, although he never actually says that. He implies it strongly. Because then he'll be, because God has worked all things together for good, he's now your brother. And the hanging question there is, what are you going to do about it, right? There's got to be a pause in Philemon's mind. He's now my brother. He's not my brother. He's a thief, right? Oh, he's my brother. How are we going to do about this? He's more than a slave, no longer a slave, but a beloved brother. He's no longer a slave, but a beloved brother. Must have kind of echoed in Philemon's head, right?

Paul has said in the letter to the wider church that, of course, Philemon would have read, there's no bond nor free in Christ. He admits that slaves exist in society in a lower strata, but he says we were adopted in Galatians, in another letter that Philemon would have read. We are adopted out of slavery to the highest status, huiathesia. We've all been adopted into Christ. And by the way, the reason I say Philemon would have read it is Galatia is sort of in central Turkey, just above Colossae in southern Turkey. And their letters were always circulated between the churches to be read aloud, right? So he would, several years before, have heard this letter from Galatians. We're adopted out of slavery, but we are bond servants of Christ. We've been elevated out of the oak slavery to only serving Christ. And this was a sentiment echoed by Peter in 2 Peter, by James,

by Jude. Paul says it in Romans, Philemon, Titus, Colossians, etc., right? And here in Colossians at the very end. In 17, he references Koinonia again. You and me are partners, he says, right? Well, it's a call back to the shared endeavor they have. And that means the elephant in the room is we can't go on being in fellowship and being in partnership in unity with this wrong between us. Can't happen. What are we going to do about it? I persuaded Onesimus to come back, and you have to realize he did. He told a runaway slave to go back and deliver an unguarded message to his previous owner, right? Or current owner by Roman law. He's persuaded Onesimus to go make it right and accept whatever Philemon does, right? He could go right back into slavery, and it would be on Paul that it happened. That's difficult.

But I persuaded him to come back. He's making it right, and the hanging word is, what are you going to do about it, Philemon, right? He was repairing what he can, but he can't repair everything. The rest of it's up to you. So are you going to hold it against him? Yeah, you were wronged. By the way, if there's something you can't get over, because we are only human here, but if he's wronged you and owes you anything, and by the way, that's an absurd word, if, of course he's wronged him. He owes him lots of stuff. He stole himself. He stole the clothes on his back. He inevitably stole food and money to be able to make the trip to get away. We don't, that had to have happened, right? He's wronged Philemon publicly, embarrassed him, broken the law. Yes, he's wronged

him. Paul's saying, are you going to call it a wrong? Are you going to demand to be made right? Are you going to demand your rights for what's been wrong to you? Or are you going to give him grace? Are you going to allow him to repent and make it whole so that we can all be saints in the koinonia? That's so difficult. We have wrongs between us that are way less impressive than this, and we don't always get over him, and we should. And why? Because, here's the kicker in verse 19, Paul says, I'm writing this with my own hand, and this is, by the way, an IOU. He wrote it with his own hand, the same reason you sign a check, right? He's saying, it's really happening. I really am going to pay you back for what Onesimus took and remind you that you owe me everything already, right?

Now, that's hilarious. It absolutely is. It's funny. But also, we read it just as a passive-aggressive, I'm not really going to pay you back, and that's not what he's doing. What he's doing is pointing to Christ, right? Think of the parable of the unforgiving servant. I think it's Luke 7. There's one slave who is basically forgiven the value of the national debt, right? And he is free, and at this moment, he can now start his life over. So he runs out to get some cash to start his life over, and is completely harsh to somebody that owes him a couple hundred bucks, and beats him, and threatens to throw him in jail for that money. Because he's focused on the value, not on the forgiveness. He's focused on the money, and oh, thank good I don't owe that money. Now I can get the money

I need instead of the forgiveness. Oh, I have the forgiveness. Now I can share it. And Paul is pointing, he's saying, that's what he's saying he's doing, right? And he's saying, hey man, I've already given you everything, as in forgiveness in Christ. I pointed you to Christ. Are you going to pass that on? Where's the value here? Is the value in what you paid for Onesimus, in the social embarrassment of him running away and coming back? Or is the value in Christ, in another soul saved, in the koinonia growing? Right? We are all forgiven by Christ. It's a teaching that goes on and on. The unforgiving servant, he is forgiven much, loves much. In Matthew 18, in Luke, I'm sorry, in Ephesians, be kind to one another, forgiving one another, as Christ has forgiven you. It's a constant refrain. And Philemon's now being

challenged to actually do it, right? You have to forgive as Christ has forgiven you. And when did Christ forgive us? It is via the kindness of God that we come to salvation. Christ forgave us. It was while we were yet sinners that Christ died for us. That grace was extended before we asked for it. And that allowed us, that kindness allowed us to repent so we could then receive forgiveness. And that is what Paul is pointing Philemon to with this comment and what he's challenging him to do so that the whole koinonia can be made whole. Imagine what that church would be like, right, if Onesimus and Philemon were in it and they weren't made whole. Very difficult, right? So we have to forgive one another. And it's in those moments of when someone comes to us. I know we're all a righteous and holy group of people who have never betrayed anyone, but

we've all been betrayed, right? That, okay. So I'm sure we'll just, but let's say hypothetically that you've betrayed someone once. Not hypothetically, you've done it. I've done it. You've betrayed someone and you humble yourself and you go back to them and you want to make it right. That's the moment when they're most harsh with you, right? And they have every right to be. And all their anger is when they see vulnerable can now be released on you. And if we do that, we destroy that moment of grace. We can no longer be graced to one another. When someone has betrayed me and they come back to me and humble themselves, I must at that moment accept them at face value. You have to protect yourself, I understand. You have to be cautious. But when someone is genuinely repentant, you must accept it. You must not camp and

demand that your wrongs be rights. You cannot do that. That will destroy the fellowship. And that's what Paul is pointing out to Philemon here. So Paul says, hey man, please instead bring freshness to me. Bring me joy. Forgive this young man and let him grow in the fellowship of Christ. And again, we have some evidence that happened. So I'll come back to that. Being confident in your obedience. Paul hasn't told him to do anything. What's he supposed to be obedient to, right? He hasn't given him any commands. His obedience to Christ. Paul said, I'm bold enough to know what Christ said. I could just tell you, but I want you to do it of your own volition. Being confident in your obedience to Christ. I'm writing this to you knowing that you will do even more than I'm saying because you know what

Christ did for you. That's what he's saying here. That you laid on your lives for one another as disciples. That others who join the fellowship and love one another will, I know that you'll do even more and forgive it. Al Sharpton's, you guys know the Reverend Al Sharpton, right? He has a great story. He was actually, a man made an attempt on his life and he was in the hospital in grave condition for some time. And when he was able to come out of the hospital and meet the young man in the courtroom, he was going to have to face him. And he was talking to his mother about what am I going to do in the courtroom when I have to face this guy. And his mother said, well, are you going to forgive him?

And he said, forgive him? He tried to kill me. And she said, huh, well, what do you think Jesus would do? And he said, what do you mean, what would Jesus do? And she said, I was just asking. And I hear that in Paul here. I'm just asking. What would Jesus do, right? I know you'll do the right thing, right? Man, but he genuinely means I know you'll do the right thing. I know you. We're in fellowship and I know you'll do the right thing here.

And by the way, I'm not just leaving it. I think you're a good guy. I'm going to come see you and I'm going to get to see you and Onesimus in fellowship together. That's a little bit of a social threat, but I believe he genuinely means it. He really wants to see them in fellowship together. And it's a gift of accountability. Onesimus is, I mean, Philemon is reminded at this moment that Epaphras, his boss, so to speak, and Paul, the apostle, they know about this. They're going to come see how it works out. And it's that extra motivation, knowing you're not operating. A slave owner can do whatever he wants to his slave, but Paul is saying, no, we know what's going to happen. When I get out of here, I'm coming to see you because I want to see this beautiful thing

happening. Then he just says, you know, prepare a guest room for me with your prayers. I really hope to go out of prison and come see you. And then he signs off. The guys with me say hi. But it's not as simple as that. I want to run through this list. It's never as simple as that. Epaphras, that's Philemon's overseer. Like, that's the guy he answers to in the church. And Paul's letting him know Epaphras knows about this, right? We're in this together. My fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus greets you as do, because Epaphras is in prison with him, as do Mark. Who's Mark? John Mark. John Mark wrote the book of Mark. John Mark also in Acts 13 was supposed to go out and serve with Paul and Barnabas, but quit and ran home to Crete, right? He abandoned his faithful duty. He betrayed his trust.

As a young man who didn't know any better. And now he is back in prison with Paul serving the faith. That's an example of what Onesimus can become. And Paul didn't put that in there for nothing. He put that in there. So he's like, your overseer knows what's going on. And here's an example of it working. They're both with me. Who else is with me? Aristarchus and Demas. One is an aristocratic name. One is a populist name. The rich and the common man are with me. And the last one is Luke, a slave who is working side by side with me in the faith. We're all here. We're all listening while this is being dictated, right? We all know what happened and we're coming to see you, man. That's heavy. And Philemon, I can just picture him like, you know, Tychius and Onesimus are waiting in the

lobby and he's reading this and he's kind of, kind of, I mean, he's got a decision to make. And my hope is that by the end of this, he was already decided. He sees what Paul is saying. Then Paul says, man, I hope the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ is with you. And this is a y'all with all of you guys, you and the house church meeting in your house. That's an amazing letter, right? Now, what should have occurred to you at some point in that is as awesome as that letter was, why didn't Paul just buy his freedom? He could have. That happened all the time in the early church. They bought slaves out of freedom from oppression and pagan owners. Why didn't he just do that? That would have been a simple, Onesimus, Philemon would have been made whole. Onesimus would have

been made legal. Paul could have freed him himself. Problem solved. But the koinonia would have been broken. Onesimus, there's no way that until that forgiveness had occurred that he could meet in the house where he used to serve as a slave and so wronged his master. There's no way the master could, in good faith, talk about being Jesus to the world around us and how we must forgive those who've wronged us until he lets Onesimus go now that he's with him in Christ. Paul knows that this has to be resolved. The money is not the issue. Roman law is not the issue. The issue is the strength of their family. The koinonia is there together. That's why this letter was written. To have impartial, yielded community, forgiveness is incredibly powerful and it lets the world know

what we're about, right? Onesimus must forgive his owner so that in Colossians 4.9, I'm sorry, I hit the wrong button there. In Colossians 4.9, it says again, Onesimus is our faithful dear brother who is one of you. They have to see him that way or this experiment is a failure.

When we betray and we're repented and we're vulnerable, we have to forgive one another or the experiment becomes a failure. Do you get that? When members of a spiritual community reach a sacred place of vulnerability and authenticity, something is released. Something good begins to happen. Spiritual togetherness, what we call connecting, creates movement toward, togetherness in Christ encourages movement toward Christ. Togetherness in Christ encourages movement toward Christ. They couldn't keep moving toward Christ while they were divided from one another, claiming to be his adopted children. As the election season comes around, this should be written on all of your, I don't know, desktops, right? You got to pray for those that you disagree with so strongly and genuinely forgive them for whatever you're holding against them. Let it go so that you can be with them in Christ.

50 years after this letter was written, I told you about Ignatius and Polycarp, John's disciples, right? John was the youngest disciple and when he passed away, these were the two last remaining links to the early apostles that the church had. And as Ignatius was on his way to execution, he began frantically writing letters, that's 50 years after this letter was written, and saying to all the churches, don't despair. Just because the apostles are gone, you're not taken away from Christ. There are strong leaders among you that know everything that Christ said. The truth is there with you. Trust the people that are with you. And he would specifically, when he was writing to the church at Ephesus, he said, he called out one particular leader in particular, who was their, had been their long-term bishop and overseen the growth of that church. Anybody care to guess his

name? Onesimus. Okay? Church tradition says it's the same Onesimus that was referenced in this letter, which is why for 50 years, even if it was a different freed slave named Onesimus, for 50 years, every time they heard the great things that guy was doing, they remembered this letter. And every time they read this letter, they remembered the great thing that guy was doing. He's now raised to a position of leadership where he should have been, by law, cast down as a runaway slave and punished and just forgotten forever in a cellar, right? He was raised to leadership and grew the church so that 50 years later, when the last disciple of the last apostle was saying, trust your leaders, this is the guy they talked about. We must take folks into the koinonia with their baggage.

When Onesimus joined the church, he was a slave and he did horribly, you know, he wronged his owner. And then, without correcting that, he was accepted into the fellowship. When Philemon came into the church, he owned a bunch of slaves, right? And he was accepted into the fellowship knowing that we will work out in fear and trembling our salvation together in the koinonia until we, that seed is planted in a moment of, uh, when we commit ourselves to Christ and the plant grows through the good seasons and bad until it can bear fruit. It bore fruit with Philemon when Onesimus became bishop, right? It appears that happened.

And this didn't work because of Paul's eloquence. It is a great letter. It is. I'm sure there were many drafts, but it didn't work because of Paul's eloquence. It worked because God had been working on their hearts so that they could accept it. Can you think about Paul early on? God had worked on him a lot so he could write this letter. Timothy, Luke, all these people who'd come from their various harmed backgrounds had grown to the point that they could commit to supporting this letter. Philemon had to grow and accept this letter or we wouldn't have it today. God worked on his heart. Onesimus had to apologize and make right for a lot that he'd wronged. And he grew to be a leader in the church because God was working on their hearts, because they know, we all know, that we all kneel

side by side on equal footing before the throne of grace if we're going to have koinonia. Let's pray. Father God, thank you so much for the preservation of history so that we can see how you worked in our forebearers and understand how you inspired those in the church to follow you in the tough times and to overcome the huge cultural gaps that keep us apart. So that we know we are all equal before you and we know that you have given us the grace that we can extend to others to become occasions of grace to one another. Lord, thank you for forgiving our sins. Help us to forgive others as you've forgiven us. As we go out in this week, let us just bask in that glory and appreciation of your grace. In Jesus' name, amen.

I don't know that I can add any value to that whatsoever. But as we conclude, I do want to just think about everything that Kent said in light of how we started our service with confession to God. We confess our sins to God. He's faithful and just to forgive us. Later in James, it says if we confess our sins to one another, we will be healed. And I just don't want this place to be a place where we're all really concerned with our relationship with the Lord and it doesn't impact the way that we relate to one another. Think about Jesus' words. If you're offering a sacrifice and you realize your brother has something against you, leave your sacrifice at the altar and go to your brother. So as we think about incorporating a culture of confession to God, that's part one. But part two is

how does that confession to God cause us to interact with our brothers and sisters that we disagree with? And I was just thinking, we live in a culture of, I hate picking on the culture, but not really. Cancel culture. Cancel culture says if you do one bad thing or you say one bad thing, you're bad and you're no longer useful to me. The thing I love about this letter is Paul is very clearly saying to Philemon, you're doing good things for the Lord, but also you have these other things you still need to figure out. Isn't that true of all of us? All of us who are faithfully seeking to follow Jesus, there's good things that we're doing. But from now until the Lord comes back, we have sin in our life that we need to work out with one another in community. May this place be a safe place that we can do that.

So my encouragement as we leave this week, don't come back to church next week. Stand up and confess your sins to God. If you know, if you know that you have something, an issue with your brother, if you know your brother has something against you or you have something against your brother, take this week, marinate on those things. Who are those people that there are unforgiveness or bitterness in your heart towards? Who are those things that you've had conversations in the car with, imaginary conversations with people that aren't there? Who are those people? Stop having those imaginary conversations. And it's not easy. It's really hard. And you can't control how they'll respond. All right, let's make that a priority this week.
