Psalm 31
2025-08-04
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OqmsmcTQ1-Q

Amen.

Well, thank you. Thank you. And thank you all for joining us this morning. If we haven't had the privilege of meeting yet, my name is Ryan, and I'm one of the pastors here, and I'm going to need to get some more volume, I think, maybe. Can you guys hear me? Oh, okay. We are continuing our series through the book of Psalms this summer, and it's no accident that we spent so much time meditating on the significance of the cross this morning as we are turning our Bibles to Psalm chapter 51. So if you want to turn there with me, you can. Psalm 51 is one of the more famous Psalms in the book of Psalms, and it is a Psalm of confession, a Psalm of David after some of the most horrendous, horrible sins that we could imagine committing

before a holy God when David found himself in a position of leadership over the people of God. And so we need to remind ourselves, we need to meditate on the power of the cross this morning because it is the only way forgiveness can be found for those of us who have fallen and sinned. Whether it be at the level of David or any other form of sin, we have all fallen short of God's glory and his grace. And so this morning, may the cross just be in the back of our minds as we cover this Psalm this morning. I am going to share a story with you all about my mother. I asked her permission. And I also, I asked her not to give me all the details of the story because the story, the way that I remember it makes an incredible sermon illustration.

And I was afraid that if I called and talked her through all the details, that she would correct me on some things that would make it less of a good sermon illustration. So I'm taking some creative liberties here. And if part of this story isn't completely accurate, just go with me because it's a good sermon illustration. All right. About a year ago, Marissa and I were taking Rory to our denominational church conference. And Marissa was going to work remotely. I was going to be at the conference and we were going to need some help with the baby. If we were going to pull it off. So we got an Airbnb, invited my parents down to come help me. They're lovely people in the retirement phase of their lives, able to help, willing to help with our child.

And what happened is as they got there, I realized that they weren't going to be very helpful. My mom was practically bedridden with back pain and love her to death. Yes, she came anyway with like able hands, willing to do whatever she could when she could stand up, which wasn't very often. And so she was just crippled with this back pain and unable to do just about anything that she wanted to do. And she'd been wrestling with this back pain for a long time. And finally, through different types of treatment and different investigative processes, one doctor found out that the cause of her back pain was actually the result of a heel spur on her foot. It was because she was limping because of this heel spur on her foot and that jacked her back

all up. And then that led to all of this pain that on the surface looked like back pain. But in order to really address the back pain, we were going to have to address the heel spur, right? That sounds like some of you all are in the medical field. Sounds pretty normal, right? Okay, so here's where it gets really interesting. The doctor who told her that she was going to have to get this heel spur figured out. Well, apparently in order to fix the heel spur, you have to detach the Achilles tendon. That doesn't sound minor to me. Does that sound minor to you? At that point, I'm thinking about my back pain and thinking about how qualified this doctor might be to detach one of my attendants and then retouch them and the recovery process that

that might take. And I'm like, hmm, maybe, maybe the back pain isn't as bad as I thought it was, right? Like maybe we don't have to address this right now. Maybe he's wrong. Maybe we can look into this from a couple of different angles. And so finally, my mom decided to get this very painful procedure on her foot that had a long time of recovery, but ultimately led to healing and restoration of her whole body. And I share this illustration before we hop into a text about confession, because I think that's how confession works in the life of a believer. That in order to really get full restoration, full healing, we have to go through this painful process of confession before God and others. And the reality is it's not our only option, right? Like my mom didn't have to go through this surgery. She had a couple of options. She could have managed the pain. There's some good pills out there, some good gummies.

Some bottles that people have turned to in the midst of pain. Like you can manage pain if you want to. If you don't want to address the core issue that's involved in your life, you can manage the pain. The other option is she could have just given in to the fact that she's a crippled person now, right? She could have owned this identity that I am a person with a back that does not work. I'm just going to sit in this. And I think the same is true with us when we are in the midst of sin and rebellion before God. We've got some options. We can manage the pain. We can cover it up. We can hide. We can sulk and sit in our shame and just say, this is who I am. I am a broken person.

I will never change. I will never be able to change. This is who I am. This is my identity now. Those are some options, but the option that the Scripture gives us, the option that we see in the life of David is this willingness to undergo this painful process of confession that ultimately leads to restoration and healing of the body. This is what we're going to see in our psalm today. God, the loving physician, he sends the prophet Nathan to confront David with the realities of his pain management. He loves David enough to say, you're not as good as you think you are. And you might be able to manage this for a while, but ultimately, if you want true joy, if you want true healing, if you want true life and fulfillment, you're going to have to

deal with what's going on inside of your soul. The prophet Nathan helps David to see the chronic issue in his life rooted in unconfessed sin. And the result of that confrontation is this incredibly beautiful, powerful, and prophetic prayer of confession that is probably one of the most useful psalms to the community of faith for the past thousand or two thousand years. And the reason it's one of the most useful psalms to the people of God is I don't know what your experience is with the people of God, but in my experience with the people of God throughout centuries is that we have a propensity to mess up and cover up instead of fessing up. This is what we do as a people. And many of us have experienced this in our own lives. Many of us have caused more damage in our lives than needed to be caused because we messed up,

and instead of dealing with the consequences of our sin, we covered them up, we hid them, and that led to more sin, more lying, more betraying, and more pain. Thank you. And some of us, other people have done this in our lives. Some of us are victims of unconfessed sin, unrepentant sin, and we have been caught in the web of somebody else's lies, and there's so much additional pain that comes from this because we try and manage the pain rather than go to the great physician and allow him to address the root cause of our pain and give us whole body, whole soul, whole mind restoration and healing. We need this in our lives. So, let's unpack this psalm section by section with the hope of seeing that confession is a painful participation in grace

rooted in God's character that leads to the restoration of individuals and the authenticity of communities. I think that's going to be on the screen. And I worked really hard on this, so what I'm going to need you to do is to at least pretend like you're writing it down. Do we have it? Maybe. Maybe not. I'll say it again, and you pretend, everybody pretend like you're writing it down, okay? Confession is a painful participation in grace. It's rooted in God's character, and it leads to the restoration of individuals and the authenticity of communities. You guys didn't even pretend. I took a picture. There we go, there we go. Pictures, that's great. Thank you, thank you. I'm not trying to coddle my own ego here or anything, but. Yeah, I am. All right, cool. All right, first, let's unpack this first section.

It's rooted in God's character. Psalm 51, verse 1. We'll read the script above. It says, So the director of the prophet Nathan came to him after David had committed adultery with Bathsheba. So if you don't know the whole backstory, it's in 2 Samuel 11 and 12. Feel free to go back and read some of that. David, the king of Israel commits adultery with a woman who is married to one of his close soldiers. She gets pregnant, and he freaks out. And so he tries to get the soldier to come back from war, to sleep with his wife, so nobody knows it's David's baby. Maybe that doesn't work because Uriah is a man of character, unlike David at this point in their lives. And David, continuing to try and cover up his sin, has Uriah killed.

And ultimately, through having Uriah killed, has multiple soldiers who wouldn't have been killed in battle, likely, killed in battle because of David's sin. This is the backdrop of our text. And he says, Have mercy on me, O God, according to your unfailing love, according to your great compassion. Blot out my transgressions. David has committed some incredibly horrific sins to this point and spent much time trying to cover it up to avoid any potential consequences for his actions. But when Nathan confronts them, he realizes what needs to be done. Just like when the physician laid out all the facts for my mom, it's like, Hey, I know it's going to be painful to detach your Achilles, but if you want healing, if you want restoration, this needs to happen. David is the most powerful man in Israel.

So it's important here that we realize David realizes what needs to be done, but it's not the only option that he had. Because David is the most powerful man in Israel, he could have kept the charade going, right? He could have had the prophet Nathan killed. Been like, I don't know what happened to the prophet. We're good, right? He could have continued to cover up. But this turning back to God that David performs in the midst of his rebellion and sin is ultimately what makes him a man who is described as a man after God's own heart. He realizes that the good life is not wrapped up in getting what we want or avoiding the consequences of our pain, but it is ultimately wrapped up in our willingness to surrender, surrender to Abba, Father, the God of the universe.

If we want true healing, if we want true restoration, if we want true abundant life that Jesus says he comes to offer, it does not come through us managing happiness through our circumstances. It comes by us standing before the God of grace and allowing him to be the Lord and leader of our life. The satisfaction that he was chasing in this sexual encounter with an off-limits woman can only be found in the loving embrace of the one who made him. And this is as true for us today as it was for David on the roof of his palace when he first laid eyes on Bathsheba, as it was for Adam and Eve in the cool of the Eden garden. We constantly have this choice laid before us. Are we going to trust that God is a good father who wants good things for us?

Or are we going to take from him what is never intended to be ours? This is Adam and Eve's sin. This is David's sin on the roof. And this is our struggle today. Are we going to trust that God is a loving father who ultimately wants what's best for us? Or are we going to take from him what we are claiming is ours and use it for ourself? We chase happiness, fulfillment, and satisfaction in a lot of places, but apart from an authentic relationship with God who made us and loved us, we will always be left wanting. Do not allow yourself. Now, even before we need to come into confession, I want to say, do not allow yourself to be lured into destruction by the counterfeit joys of this world. So many people in my life have destroyed families,

have caused irrevocable damage with one decision in a secret place where they thought nobody would know and nobody would find out, and I will be satisfied and I will be fulfilled and I will be happy. And they spend the rest of their life taking the broken pieces of their lives back to God and asking him to rebuild him. And the beautiful part about this psalm is that he will and that he does, but it is not easy. It is painful. And so before you even get there, make the decision, make the intentional effort to seek after God, to seek obedience to him. Don't even get to this place. David knows that if he ever wants to experience a truly restored life, he must turn back to God, no matter how painful it might be. And he does so boldly, not rooted in who he is,

but rooted in the very character of God. He says, forgive me, have mercy on me, according to your unfailing love, according to your great compassion, blot out my transgressions. Those of you who know your Bibles well, likely are hearing echoes of Exodus 34, right? God declaring his very core identity, his character, his nature to the people of Israel. He says, the Lord, the Lord, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. This is who God declares himself to be to his people. And David takes those words back to God and he declares to God, forgive me, not because of who I am. I don't know if you've spent much time in the history books, but kings around this time were pretty arrogant. Many of them thought they were gods themselves. Like David very easily could have come into God's presence and said,

God, I am the king of your people. You need to forgive me for the sake of your name. He doesn't do that. He doesn't come into God's presence and say, because of who I am, I need your forgiveness. Because I'm the king, because you've anointed me, because you've put me in this place, I need your forgiveness. He doesn't say, because I've deserved it. He doesn't say, because of who I am. He says, because of who you are.

Confession has to first and foremost be rooted in the character of God, who is eager to forgive. It's reminding me of the story of the prodigal son. The moment the father sees the son moving towards him, he sprints. This is the character of the God that we serve. He is eager to forgive. Many of us in the room, we likely don't have the level of sin that David has at this point, although some of us might. We've got some detectives as a part of our congregation. So if you want to come forward and make some confessions after service, let me know. We'll take you down to the station. We'll figure it out. But most of us probably don't have this level of sin in our lives. But we're all capable of it. And the moment that we think we're not,

we're all capable of it. And based on Christ's clarification of sin, he says, if we've lusted, we've committed adultery. And if we've gossiped out of hatred, we've committed murder. All of these sins cost so much damage to ourselves and those around us. And we've likely all done both of those things and covered them up and justified them and made excuses as to why it's not that big of a deal. And until we're truly honest with ourselves and with God and confession, we will never be healed at the source of our pain and our sorrow. I love how Tim Keller puts it. You guys have probably heard, some of you have heard this quote before. This is the gospel. We are more sinful and flawed in ourselves than we ever dared believe. And yet at the very same time,

we are more loved and accepted in Jesus Christ than we ever dared hope. We have to be honest with ourselves before God about the brokenness of our sin. And yet at the same time, we don't come into his presence with shame. We come into his presence knowing that he loves us and accepts us in the midst of our failure and our brokenness. David roots his confession in God's character. But confession isn't as easy as we might think it is, right? Like on the surface, confession sounds easy. Like, oh, I'll just jog into God's presence and just tell him all the things I did. He'll forgive me and we'll move on. But it's a painful participation in grace. Forgiveness is freely given by God. But genuine confession is a costly process of rooting out our own rebellion, our idolatry.

And it takes honest self-reflection. It takes us choosing to say the same thing about our sin that God says about our sin. And we live in a culture that would rather downplay the realities of our failure and pump up the realities of our success. We take credit for the crowns and we diminish the sin. And confession is a place where we get honest with ourselves and with others before God. And we say, this is who I am. And I'm here knowing that I'm loved by the Father. But if I'm ever going to find true healing and restoration moving forward, I have to be honest with what's really going on in my life. David opens up his soul to God's operating table. He finally begins to acknowledge the realities of his sinful state and his sinful actions before a holy God.

Let's read it. Verse 2. Wash away all my iniquities and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions and my sin is always before me. Does this sound like an easy thing to write about yourself? Against you and you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. So you are right in your verdict and you are justified when you judge. Surely I was sinful at birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me. Yet you desired faithfulness even in the womb. You taught me wisdom in the secret place. Cleanse me with hyssop and I will be clean. Wash me and I will be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones you have crushed rejoice. Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquity.

So David opens up his soul to God's operating table. He's finally beginning to acknowledge the reality of his sin before a holy God. And he uses this really peculiar language. And it's not really a part of my main point, but I feel like I have to address it because it jumps off the page to you if you are a victim of any sin of someone else. He says, against you and you only have I sinned. Is anybody else like, hands up? Uriah, Bathsheba, the nation of Israel, the other soldiers that were at war with Uriah, their wives and their children. Like, we could make a laundry list of people that David has offended with his sin. The consequences of those decisions will impact him and others for the rest of his life. But what David gets here is he says that sin, sin is ultimately only against God because he is the one who defines right and wrong.

He is the only one who can truly be a just judge according to his standard. And he is the only one that we can be certain of will forgive us.

David can't expect forgiveness from Bathsheba. He can't expect forgiveness from the people that he has wronged. He should seek it. But people are people and they may withhold forgiveness. David's sin is ultimately before God and he can be confident and assured that even if the people that he has offended never forgive him, that he can find forgiveness and healing in God.

We need to be a people who regularly go to God in confession and bear our true selves before him to receive his grace. It's important here that we realize that David isn't just confessing these actions, his horrific actions in the moment. But he actually uses the entire spectrum, the entire vocabulary that the Hebrew language has for sin. David isn't just confessing the actions that he committed against Bathsheba and Uriah. He's actually just confessing all of his sin before a holy God. And if you will be patient with me, can we stumble through some Hebrew for a couple of minutes? Okay. I need your patience. I need your grace. I have to be honest. I feel a little bit more confident, a little bit more confident when we get into the Greek. I did pass two semesters of seminary Greek with like a C minus.

So I feel better about that. Hebrew I dropped out of three weeks into my freshman semester. So we're going to stumble together. Does that sound good? I referenced a lot of Tim Mackey here. I trust him. And so we're going to stumble through some Hebrew. You're going to be patient with me. And at the end, I hope that it really adds some texture to what David is saying here. David primarily uses three Hebrew nouns to describe his sin and three verbs used in the Torah about God's forgiveness of sin. That makes the people acceptable to enter the tabernacle of worship. Now, before we even get into this, we have to remind ourselves that the law and the sacrificial system in the Old Testament was given to show God's people that a holy and righteous judge who we have all sinned against, who we have all expelled ourselves out of his presence, that this holy and righteous judge is moving towards his sinful people.

He's moving towards the brokenness of creation. He is making a way for them to be acceptable into his presence. He is restoring the brokenness of their world. And that is the story of the Bible. Now, we look at the Old Testament, and it looks messy, and it looks raw, and it looks weird. And we're like, what's going on there? The story's not finished yet. God is moving towards his people. He's moving towards the brokenness of creation. And so there's some language. There's a sacrificial system set up to show God's people that God is moving towards them in the midst of their brokenness. We've got three words for sin, three words for this cleansing, forgiveness, blotting out. The first is Pasha. Everybody say Pasha. We're probably not pronouncing that right, so don't say it in front of, like, an Orthodox Jew or anything.

But we've got it good enough to know what we're talking about. Pasha means, it's translated transgressions in the passage here. It is willful and active rebellion against God. This is David's sin against Bathsheba, his murder of Uriah. He's saying, I have willfully and actively committed rebellion against you, God. And the result of unconfessed, unforgiven Pasha is ultimately God's judgment, his wrath.

We've all sinned and fallen short of God's glory. The wages of sin is death. The verb he uses to partner with Pasha is makah. Everybody say makah. Blot out or erase from the record my willful rebellion. He's saying, take it off the pages of history. Erase the sin, the rebellion that I have. Next is avon, avon, yeah? Cool. Somebody, if anybody in here knows Hebrew, I'm really sorry. All right. Iniquity. This is what's translated iniquity. It means to go astray. And what Temaki pointed out here is that avon is either done intentionally or unintentionally. We can go astray on purpose, right? We can turn our back against God. We can choose to go down the wide road that leads to destruction. Or we can just find ourselves getting lost. Because we're just broken, sinful people.

And one of the primary images of this in the Old Testament. So the result of avon, of going astray, either intentionally or unintentionally, is suffering and pain. We live in a world full of suffering and pain. And what most of us know from living in this world long enough is sometimes we have suffering and pain because we've intentionally gone astray from God's commands. Anybody testify that they've gone astray from God's commands and had suffering in their life because of that? And there are others of us in the room who have suffered and are suffering not as a result of any of our sin, but just because the world is broken. We get diagnosis from the doctors. We get the negative pregnancy test again and again and again. I don't know what it is for you, but many of us suffer.

And it's not because of our sin. It's just because we live in a world that is pervaded by avon, pervaded by iniquity. And there's a real clear image of this in the Old Testament. The Old Testament uses one of the primary images of the suffering is leprosy. And leprosy, some people get struck with leprosy in the Old Testament because they've gone astray. Like because they've sinned, the result is they are struck with leprosy. And many people in the Old Testament are covered with leprosy, even though they haven't seemingly done anything wrong to deserve the suffering. It just happens because we live in a broken world. He partners that with kavath, which is translated wash or clean up. He's saying, clean up the suffering in my life, whether through my own doing or because I live in a world that has gone astray from its original intent.

Lastly, katah, sin, which is a general term for moral failure. This is the one we hear in Sunday school defined as missing the mark, right? It's just this perpetual missing the target. We are born in katah into a world marred by katah. The result of this is ultimately death. So we've got intentional rebellion that leads to God's judgment. We've got either intentional or unintentional going astray that leads to suffering. And we've got just the perpetual missing the mark that leads to death. Death is ultimately the consequence of our sin before a holy God. And the Hebrew word he partners with there is taher. It means to cleanse or to make me acceptable in your presence. Now, all three of these words for our sin and God's making a way out of the consequences of our sin culminate in one final Hebrew word.

In verse 7, it's translated, cleanse me with hyssop. It's literally the same root word as hatah for sin. It literally means to de-sin my sin. So, I know we've stumbled through this, but I promise I'm going to land the plane here, all right? So, are you guys good with me so far? All right. De-sin my sin. Take away all the consequences of my sin. The judgment of my willful rebellion. The suffering of a world gone astray. The death of a world in moral decay. De-sin all of the consequences of the sin that pervades my life, whether through my own decision or just through the reality of living in a broken world. If you are a God who moves towards us, God, forgive us. De-sin our sin. My rebellion. Take away my judgment. For the suffering that I have brought about in the lives of others.

Wash it away. For the death of a world in moral decay. Resurrect it. He says, de-sin my sin with hyssop. This word is used in three main ways in the Old Testament, and it's used once in the New Testament. The first way it's used in the Old Testament is the story of the Passover. Anybody remember that? We spread the blood of an innocent lamb over the doorpost with hyssop. This is the substitutionary removal of God's judgment. God is passing over the judgment of his Hebrew people because of the blood of the innocent lamb. He's taking away judgment. The second, hyssop is used in a process in the tabernacle when washing those who have been cleansed with leprosy.

God is taking away the suffering of a world gone astray. Lastly, it's used in a process of cleansing those who have come in contact with a dead body so that they can come back into the presence of God in the tabernacle. Holy and acceptable before him. God is taking away the death of a world in moral decay. It's used once in the New Testament. John chapter 19, verse 28 through 30. Later, Jesus hanging on the cross, knowing that everything had now been finished, and so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, I am thirsty. A jar of wine, vinegar was there, so they soaked a sponge in it. They put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant. They lifted it to Jesus' lips, and when he had received the drink, he said, it is finished.

With that, he bowed his head, and he gave up his spirit. And I don't know about you, but I cannot help but think that John, who is intentionally and creatively writing to a specific Jewish audience, is recalling, as he's recalling the crucifixion of his resurrected Messiah, I can't help but think he has Psalm 51 and these tabernacle images in his mind, and with a grin on his face as he records the word, this word for the first and only time in the New Testament. He is expanding on the holistic salvation that Jesus accomplishes on the cross, descending the consequences of all of our sin. He is our Passover lamb, who takes away the judgment of our willful rebellion, our pasha. He is the great physician who will wipe away every tear from our eyes and the suffering of our going astray, our avon.

He is the resurrected king who has conquered death, the result of our sin, the result of our kata, the final enemy of God, so that we can with confidence say, Death, where is your victory? Death, where is your sting? This is what David is prophetically speaking about, even though he has no clue the significance, the full weight of what God would do in his coming towards his people. Ultimately, first through the tabernacle, and then second through Jesus, who tabernacled among us, the God in the flesh, the perfect representation of God's character to this world. He comes in, and this word hyssop is connected to this idea of descending, that Jesus ultimately, on the cross, descends our judgment. He descends our suffering. He will wipe away every tear from our eyes. There will be no more mourning or suffering or pain.

And he takes away the sting of death, the ultimate enemy of God. Oh, the cross, what you've done, it was more than enough. The power of your blood was more than enough. And I don't know about you, but this fills my heart with joy and gladness and causes me to want to live into the reality of what Jesus has accomplished.

This isn't just some platitudes, religious platitudes we take to God. It's honestly confessing the reality of this broken world and asking God to do only what he can do through the sacrificial blood of Jesus and his resurrection. So it's a painful participation in grace that's rooted in God's character and ultimately leads to the restoration of individuals. Verse 9, he says, Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Do not cast me from your presence or take your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation and grant me a willing spirit to sustain me. Then I will teach transgressors your ways so that sinners will turn back to you. Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, you who are God, my Savior, and my tongue will sing of your righteousness.

Open my lips, Lord, and my mouth will declare your praise. For you do not delight in sacrifice or I would bring it. You do not take pleasure in burnt offerings. My sacrifice, O God, is a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart. You, God, will not despise. David implores God by the power of his spirit to restore his joy, to make him willing and able to live an obedient life surrendered to God. And he says, as a result, as I have come to you and said what is true about me and about all of humanity, as I have plunged myself on your grace, the only thing that can sustain me, the only thing that can restore me, as I do that, God, restore to me the joy of your salvation. Make me a person who wants to obey you because I know that obeying you leads to life and life to the fullest.

And I know from experience that disobeying you leads to more suffering and more chaos and more death for myself and those around me. He says, make me willing to obey you. And when I obey you and when I have been restored and received forgiveness, I will shout it from the rooftops. I will tell everyone around me what you have done for me in the midst of my rebellion and in my sin. And the result of genuine confession should be joyful restoration and a willingness to surrender and to obey moving forward. And this restoration should lead us to joyfully share what God has done in our lives to those around us. We won't be perfect. And this process will continue on repeat throughout our lives for the rest of our lives. But true confession should lead us to grow in our obedience over time and lead us to experience joy in the midst of our suffering as we hope for the restoration of all things.

So if you're in here and you regularly participate in confession, you're confessing the same sins over and over and over again on repeat with frustration and no progress or change. It's possible that you're not truly participating in confession. It's possible that you're jumping through a religious hoop that you have used to justify continuing the sin that you want to keep continuing. And that's what David is addressing here in verse 16 and 17. He says, You do not delight in sacrifice or I would bring it. You do not take pleasure in burnt offerings. You don't want just religious pomp and circumstance. You don't want me to just come into your presence with just another sacrifice. You don't want me to just come in with another mindless, meaningless prayer of just, oh God, I did it again.

I'm sorry. I'll see you again tomorrow. Right? Like this is not what God wants for his people. This is not true confession. This is religion. Confession is a broken heart. Genuine restoration and healing takes us, taking serious our sin and the consequences of it and bringing it to God, knowing that he will forgive us, that he will wash us clean, that he will invite us back into his presence again. Christ did not die and raised from the dead so that you can keep on willfully sinning just to ask forgiveness with no real desire to change. This is not the gospel.

Christ overcome, overcame the judgment of our sin, becoming our Passover lamb. He took on the suffering of our sin. And he overcame death itself. And if we have a hope for the resurrection in the future, we better have a hope for the resurrection of the brokenness in our lives today. Confession is a painful participation in grace rooted in God's character that leads to the restoration of individuals and the authenticity of communities. The band can come up if they want. No, not if they want. Come up. You have to. We planned it this way.

So it doesn't stop with the individual and we, I'm not going to chase a rabbit hole right now that I want to chase at the end of Psalm 51. What I will say is it turns from individual to corporate. He says, may it please you to prosper Zion, to build up the walls of Jerusalem. Then you will delight in the sacrifices of the righteous and the burnt offerings offered whole. Then bulls will be offered on your altar. Wait a second, David. I thought you just said God didn't want burnt offerings. He doesn't want the religious kind of burnt offerings. He doesn't want a nation of Israel who just jumps through religious hoops without any moral transformation, without any renewal from the inside out. But what David here is saying, I think what the psalmist is saying as they compile this psalm, is that a culture of confession will spread.

And especially, David, if the leadership takes sin seriously, if the leadership of the people of God will be honest about their sin and bring genuine confession to the Lord and ultimately restoration, that will spread throughout the community. And then the type of sacrifices that we will offer to God will be the type that are offered from a genuine heart and not religion. And this is my desire for you and for me and for our community. This is real people, real life stuff. May we be a people who are committed to genuine confession, who honestly take the whole vocabulary of our sin before God, seeking his forgiveness and restoration. And this includes laments. This includes you have suffering in your life that, as far as you can tell, has nothing to do with anything you've done.

But just because you live in a broken world and you come and you say, God, this doesn't make sense. I don't get it. I don't understand it. I want you to take it away. But you are God and I am a part of sinful, fallen humanity. And I'm going to trust you, even though I'm angry, even though I'm confused. We bring it all of the language of sin, of our willful rebellion, our getting lost, and just the consequences of living in a broken world. We bring it all before God.

Because he has overcome it all. And he has provided a way for us to experience his grace through Jesus. Confession is a painful participation in grace rooted in God's character that leads to the restoration of individuals and the authenticity of communities.

I don't know if you've ever been around somebody before that had a medical breakthrough in their life. If you let them talk about it, they won't stop. It's the only thing they want to talk about. And I don't know this to be true about my mom. This is one of the things I didn't ask her because I didn't want it to ruin a good illustration. But I just, in this mind, in my mind, I have this image of my mom. Anytime she meets someone with a back pain, take your shoes off real quick. Let me see your feet. Let me tell you about how I was restored from my back pain. And I share this because I think for those of us that will be willing and committed to a genuine process of confession that leads to whole person restoration,

where we can live in authenticity and unity and peace with God and with one another, I cannot help but think that we will want to shout it from the rooftops, that every person that we come in contact with, we will say, let me tell you what my God has done for me in the midst of my rebellion, in the midst of my sin, in the midst of our rebellion, in the midst of our sin. Let me tell you what God can do. And so if you have a testimony of God working and moving and healing, do not keep it to yourself. It transforms the communities around you because other people that you talk to will have hidden sin in their life that they are trying to cover up and that they are trying to manage.

And what you will do for them is release them. Give them freedom to come back to the loving arms and embrace of the Father who accepts them, even though they failed and fallen down. You will help them to see that the consequences of their sin only get worse as they cover up and hide it. But there is a place they can go to receive reconciliation and restoration and wholeness. And that is in the loving arms of the Father. And so may we be a people.

And we be a people of confession. It's painful, but it's grace. It's rooted in God's character. It changes us from the inside out and it spreads throughout a community. May this church not just be a church who says something like real people realize, but may we live it. For his glory, for our good, and for the good of the world around us.
