GO & TELL: Who is Canvas Community Church?
2025-01-06
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7rGRk6csmR4

We'll be right back. We'll be right back. Some of you, I'm surprised that you're not at the store buying 15 rolls of toilet paper and six gallons of milk, but I am glad. All right, all right, there we go. You all made the right decision, and so we're glad that you're here. If we haven't had the privilege of meeting yet, my name's Ryan, and I have the wonderful privilege of being one of the pastors here at this church that I am so, so grateful for. The people in this building have made such a difference in my life, and so I'm so thankful for all of you. And one of the things I want to say is I'm so thankful for our tech team as a whole, really, and in particular, my good friend Dave Calhoun, who would never want anyone to know that he

does anything because he likes to live in the shadows. But man, what a cool video. He took all of the, any, the fact that we even have photographs of anything that happens in this building or videos is not because of me. And so he took all of the cool things that God's been doing in our church for the past few years, put it into that awesome video graphic. And if it was up to me, we would have PowerPoint slides with Times New Roman. And so super thankful for the way that God uses so many different unique talents and gifts to build his kingdom. I just wanted to say that up front. And happy New Year's. I said Merry Christmas a couple of times already this morning. I'm going to try not to do that anymore.

How many people are big New Year's people in the room? Like big love to think about what they could do better from Latin. Okay. That's kind of what I thought. I know a lot of us are not big New Year's people. It's just another week. It's like, okay, Christmas is great and whatever. As a leader, I really find the New Year's time to be a good opportunity to take an organizational inventory, to think about what happened last year, what was good, what was bad. What can we learn from the things that happened as a church and what needs to change? What things can we improve upon? How can I change as a leader? What needs to happen in our church? And then what might God want for our church in this next coming year? And again, I know it's just another week on the calendar, but for whatever reason, for

me, it really helps me to have blocks of time to look back, to think about what God's doing and to pray about what God might want to do in the future. One thing that happened last year in our church, which was really cool, is our attendance grew by almost 50 people per Sunday, which is really exciting. Yeah, you can clap for that. It's cool. It's great. Happy. That's great. But that presents a couple of challenges. The first challenge that that presents is this, that we might, I might, as a leader, you might, if you are bought into our church, you might be tempted to think that numerical growth equals success. I might be, thank you, Jason. You're getting ahead of me a little bit. Let me build some tension here. Let me. We might be tempted to think like, oh, we're doing a great job because our attendance numbers

are growing. And that's not a bad thing. I'm excited about that. I'm celebrating all of you who are in here that weren't in here last year. But here's the deal with our church. Our church's mission statement is not, we exist to grow in average church attendance. It's not why we're here. We're excited that people are coming and connecting and getting plugged in, but we do not exist to grow the number of people that are in this room. We'll talk about that a little bit more later, but I just wanted to put that out at the front, that that is a problem that we might just think that because we grew, that we are successful. Second, growth means that a lot of you in this room weren't around when we did define what success looks like for us as a church.

And so we want to make sure that we're all on the same page, that we all know why we exist here as a church. What is the point of all of this? What is the point of you sacrificially giving your time, your money, your everything that goes into making this thing happen? What is the point? What does success really look like for us? So that's what we're going to do for the month of January. We've entitled this series, Go and Tell. It's built around the Great Commission. It's going to have all kinds of different elements that go into it. But really, our goal for this month is for all of us to get on the same page so that we know what does success look like for us as a church. We're going to work through our mission, our vision, our core values, as well as think

about what God might be inviting us into into this next year. If you're newer to our church, I would love for you to join us for one of those Canvas Connections at the end of the month. They're going to be the same. I tried to do two weeks in a row because I know not everybody comes to church every Sunday, so the 19th and the 26th. If you're new here, you want to learn more about us, you want to ask us questions about why we do certain things, the way we do certain things. You want to present suggestions that aren't on a card without a signature on it. I love suggestions if they come like face-to-face. That's not in my notes. But you know, every once in a while, a pastor gets a card with a couple suggestions and no

name. But seriously, I say that tongue-in-cheek. But seriously, we want to hear from you. We want to get to know you. We want to learn from your experience. We want to create a community here that helps us all seek Jesus together. This is not about what I want to do, what our leaders want to do. This is about what God is calling us to do as a church. We are a community together. So I'd love to have you join us for one of those. So that's the roadmap for the next month. Let me pray, and then we'll get started on what we have for this morning.

Holy Spirit, God, we welcome you in this place. We are expectant for you to speak to us in ways that we weren't expecting. We want you to show up and teach us and challenge us and convict us and encourage us. We want you to push us out of our comfort zone and into obedience, because obedience is where true, abundant life happens. God, you have something for us. You have created us for good works that you prepared in advance for us to do in this year. In 2025, there are good works for each of us to do, and you have prepared us for that. And so we sit here and we ask that you would lead us into those this year, that we would make space to hear from you, that we'd be available, that we'd have time in our schedule to do the

things that you're calling us to do. May we not be so full of our own desires and our own preferences that when you do show up and speak, we are unable to listen and obey. God, teach us to be a people who make space for you, who are obedient to you. And God, this church, what I want desperately from this church is not that we would grow in size just for our own namesake, not that anything about what happens in this building would be about us, but that this would just be square footage that is used for your kingdom to expand God, may none of this stuff be about us, may it all be about you. And if it becomes about us, God, bring us back down, do what you need to do so that it is

how many podcast listeners in the room this morning? A bunch of millennials and down, maybe some Gen Xers that were forward thinking, early adopters. It's a big millennial thing, the podcast thing. Actually, we had one of our founding pastors, Matt Lewis, him and I would always hang out, and I would always be telling him about what I just heard on the podcast. And one day, I think he just got so sick and tired of it that he goes, when's the last time you read a freaking book, kid? And I was like, you know, audio book, because it's been not too long, but paper? We'll talk about that later. No, I'm just kidding. I listen to a lot of podcasts. Usually, they're Bible podcasts, spiritual things, leadership. But when I like to relax, I like to turn my brain off.

I like to listen to sports podcasts. And right now, it is football podcast season. I listen to one particular one that is hosted by some former NFL players. I will not share the name of the podcast, because some of you will judge me. So you can just fill in the blanks in your mind. And they constantly are just trying to figure out why certain NFL teams are better than other NFL teams. Now, disclaimer, I know many of you in here are not sports ball people. I love you with all of my heart. I love that you call it sports ball. I love that you are so much not into sports that you call it sports ball. I love you dearly. I'm going to use sports as a backdrop for our outline this morning. But I think if you stick with me for just a little bit, I think we can get past all of the sports ball things that you don't like.

And hopefully, you can track with us for the rest of the time. So my non-sports ball people, you good with that? Thank you. All right. Thank you. I see you. All right. So they're constantly trying to talk about why are certain teams better than other teams. It's like most of the time that they talk about, most of the things they talk about on podcasts. And it's actually, it's not as obvious as you would think. Because you would think, okay, well, this team has better players than that team, so they're a better team. Right? It seems like that might be the most obvious thing that would happen. The reality is that at the level of the NFL, there are so many. Everybody in the NFL is the best of the best of the best. Right? They are the top athlete of the top athlete.

Any NFL team can beat any other NFL team on any given Sunday, unless, of course, you're a fan of the Titans or maybe the Browns.

I dropped that in there very particularly for a few people. But any team can beat any other team on any given Sunday because these people are the best of the best of the best of the best. And so there has to be something about the team that makes certain teams more successful than other teams, and certain teams more successful year over year over year. If you watch the NFL at all, you've noticed that there are a few teams that have been really good for the last couple of years, right? Over and over and over again. Maybe not winning the Super Bowl, but good over and over and over again. Now, I do not claim to be an expert on any of these things. I played football until I was 12, so I know, like, three formations that I forget the name of and how to hold the ball so that you don't fumble.

That's my knowledge of football. So I don't claim to be an expert, but as an avid listener to the podcast, there are three main things that come up over and over and over again that these NFL players who are on successful NFL teams say make teams successful. Those three things are, and you'll see them on the back of your bulletin if you want to follow along with the notes, they are system, we could call it strategy, culture, and point of emphasis. These are the three things that I hear the podcast host talk about over and over and over again, that the teams that are the best teams have the best system, the best culture, and they really focus on point of emphasis. So that is going to be the framework that we are going to use.

And again, I know that you guys aren't all sports ball fans, but I think that this system maps really well over the church. So strategy, system, scheme. Every NFL team has the same goal, right? Every NFL team is trying to score more points than the other team. Even if you don't like sports ball, pretty, that's it. We all have the same goal. So what makes them more effective than others? Well, each team has their own strategy that they go about doing that. Some focus on runs, some focus on paths, some focus on this is where my knowledge ends. They do something different than those two things. But they have a system, a strategy, and the best teams build their strategy around the players on their team. Like they custom build the strategy based on the talented players that they have on their team.

Second is culture. The culture is built by what the team values and prioritizes and practice in the locker room all throughout the week, right? The games that they play, they're 60-minute long games, but these teams work for 100-plus hours a week. So what they do in between the 60-minute games, the things that they focus on, the conversations that they have, that dictates their culture, and the culture has to, if they want to be a successful team, it has to build on the system. For instance, if there's a team whose system is focused on running, and in their culture, they have their offensive linemen, their blockers, watch a lot of film and not lift any weights. If their culture is like, we're just going to, we're going to be the smartest offensive linemen there ever was,

then they might know exactly where they need to be on the field, but they are going to get run over by the team who's spending time lifting weights. The culture has to build on the system, what they do in between the time of the games. And then lastly is the point of emphasis. The best teams identify their most vulnerable spot, the spot that they might be most beaten by, and they work on technique or drill or whatever it might be to fix that problem. Now, again, I know, what does this have to do with the Bible? Let's get there. Goal. Every Bible-believing church, every Bible-believing church has the same goal. It doesn't matter your denomination, Catholic, Protestant, Anabaptist, Presbyterian, Baptist, Methodist. It doesn't matter. If you are a Bible-believing church, you have the same goal in mind.

That goal was given to us by our Lord and Savior after he rose from the dead. He said, go in all the world and make disciples, baptizing them and teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. That is the goal of every Bible-believing church. If you go to a church and that is not their goal, run. That is what we've been called to do. We all have the same goal. However, each local expression of the church needs to contextualize their system, their culture, and their point of emphasis in order to remain effective at that goal. Churches die year after year after year. They close their doors. And I think the reason that they close their doors, it's not because they don't care about the Great Commission. These are our brothers and sisters in Christ doing their best to keep their church doors open.

It's not because they don't care about the Great Commission. It's because they've lost focus of the system, the culture, the point of emphasis. They've missed something. They've gotten lulled to sleep. They've gotten comfortable doing the things that they've always done. And so I think if we're going to remain effective as a church at doing the thing that God has called us to do, we have to be intentional with our system, with our culture, with our point of emphasis year in and year out. We can't get lulled to sleep. We can't get bored. We can't get comfortable just with being here in this space with the people we're comfortable with. Paul says, I became all things to all people that I might reach some. This is a very biblical principle. If you have ever spent any time with missionaries, effective missionaries move into the place that they're trying to reach.

And what they do is learn the culture, meet the people, get to know how things work. And then they define, they build a system around the culture so that they can reach the people. This is a very biblical principle. So with the rest of my time, what I want to do this morning is I want to unpack for you what I think that our system, our culture, and I want to suggest to you what I think a point of emphasis might be for us in 2025. It's an ambitious task. So I'm going to have to talk really fast and you all are going to have to listen faster. Sound good? Okay. Systems. Just like in football, there are multiple systems that make up a team. Even you sports ball people don't know that. I think you sports ball people, you non-sports ball people, it's hard to say.

There's offense and this is where it gets really hard for you non-sports ball people. Do you know the third phase? Hey, let's go. All right. We got offense, we got defense, we got special teams. And each one of those have their own system that is built to do the thing they need to do. Now, here's the thing with church. Here's the thing with the Great Commission. If you look at the Great Commission, the Great Commission requires two different systems. It says, go into all the world, make disciples, baptizing them and teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. There is a inherently evangelistic strategy to the Great Commission. What do we do outside of these four walls? What are we doing when we're out in the world? What are we doing to go out in the world and to engage the world with the gospel?

There's an external system at play in the Great Commission and there's an internal system in play. Every church that wants to effectively fulfill the Great Commission has to have a strategy for how to take someone who's been baptized, who has been reached with the gospel of Jesus. Now, what are you going to do to teach them, to encourage them, to train them to be obedient to the gospel of Jesus? It's an internal system and an external system. These two things work hand in hand. And I see there's a ton of people who are super passionate about reaching people with the gospel of Jesus. They are missionaries to their bones, but all they want to do is get somebody to convert. And then after that, they don't have a plan. They don't have a strategy. It's just like, here, pray this prayer.

Please place your faith and trust in the Lord Jesus. And we need those people. But we all have a calling. We all have a gift. And those gifts work together. And so as a church, if we're going to be an effective church, we have to have an effective outside strategy and an effective inside strategy. Does that make sense? Okay, thank you. Some people are, I love it. So this is how, and this is not how, if you read books on how to write mission, vision, and core value statements, this is not how they tell you to write mission and vision statements. But this is how, because I'm the leader of this organization and I don't always listen to books when I read them. Actually, I always listen to books when I read them.

No, this just kind of happened. This kind of unfolded this way, that our mission statement really is what, it is our strategy for our internal success. If we're going to be successful as a church that trains up disciples, that encourages disciples to learn how to obey all that Jesus commanded them, that is our mission statement. And our vision statement really is about how do we go outside of these four walls? And how do we reach the city with the gospel of Jesus? How do we reach our community with the gospel of Jesus? So we've broken that down into kind of an internal system and an external system. Today, we only have time to cover the internal system. Next week, we'll get more into the external system. Does that make sense? All right. You guys are listening really fast and really good.

Now, really quick note, an important note, and we talked about this a little bit with the football, but systems need to be built around the people in the room. So every once in a while, coaches get fired in the NFL, and sometimes a coach will get hired, and you'll see them come in, and they already have the system in mind that has worked for them in the past. And what they'll do is they'll just say, here is the system that we are going to run. If we run this system, we will win. But what often happens is when the coach developed the system that worked, they had a certain type of player in the room, and that system worked for those players. But then they get to another team, and they say, this system will work if we run this system.

But there's totally different kinds of players, and they try and force these players to play the system that was not designed for them. Does that make sense? So what I want you to know about our mission statement as a church is our mission statement is not my mission statement for our church. It wasn't like they hired me as a pastor, and they were like, come tell us what to do. What is your vision for the church? As a matter of fact, I've had some conversation with you guys when I first came here. They were like, you were like, what's your vision for the church? And I'm like, my vision? You don't want my vision, because the church is not me to you. The church is us together, okay? So when we built our mission, our vision, and our core value statement, I didn't build it in a room by myself.

We built it together. Most of you in this room, most of you that built this are in this room with me. Like, we sat in rooms together and played on a whiteboard. You guys remember that? It was fun. I'm looking for you guys. It was fun. We had fun, didn't we? We had fun with the whiteboard. Thank you, Jeremy. We did. We had a great time. We asked for feedback from our congregation, from our leadership. We built a system based on who we are as people. Because God is not calling a random, unidentified group of people to lead this church. He's calling us to lead this church. So this system was built around at least who was there then. And so if you've come since then, hopefully you've been attracted to that because you're like us,

and you want to do things the way that we're doing things. And if not, hopefully you can help us get better at the thing that God's called us to do. All right, so system. Mission statement. This is our internal success. This is what success looks like for us inside the walls of the church. Hopefully you've heard it before. If you haven't heard it before, that's because I am really bad at repeating myself. They say the best leaders repeat themselves over and over and over again. I don't like doing that. Therefore, I'm bad at leading in that way. So hopefully you've heard our mission statement. If you haven't, it is this. This is what internal success looks like for us. We, as a church, invite, we are inviting real people with real lives into a Christ-centered community.

This is what success looks like for us inside the walls of the church. Taking people who have accepted Jesus as their Lord and Savior and encouraging them, teaching them, training them to obey all that Jesus has commanded them. As a church, we are most effective when we are inviting followers of Jesus, young and old, on fire and flaming out on your last straw, your last-ditch effort to give this faith thing a try. Been around church your whole life or ran away from church and you're just now having the confidence to come back. Or maybe this is the first time you've ever stepped in church in your life. It doesn't matter where you're at. What we do best is when we invite you, all of you, wherever you're coming from, whatever background you have, to live into an authentic community.

Authentic. Where we are actually real people. We're straight with who we are. With where we're at. We're not, there's no false pretense with us. We're honest about where we're at. We're living in an authentic community. With doubts, with struggles, with failures, and with hang-ups. And in the midst of the realities of our lives together, that we're pursuing submission and obedience to Jesus as the soul, the only leader of our life. Not a primary leader of our life. Jesus is the sole leader of our life. It is a Christ-centered community. And we are going to fail. We fall short all of this all of the time. But this is what success looks like for us. We are at our best when we are an invitational community, an authentic community, and a Christ-centered community. I just realized that that kind of rhymes when I say it like that.

It's the first time I said it out loud. I like that. Okay. I got to go back. We are at our best. Thank you. When we are an invitational community, an authentic community, and a Christ-centered community. I'm preaching, people. Come on. Which is what Saquon Barkley will not be doing today because he will be on the bench. All right. Sports ball people, I'm sorry. Invitational. Following Jesus is not intended to be done out of guilt, fear, peer pressure, or religion. We are not here to bully you into following Jesus. We do not want to peer pressure you, guilt you, fear monger you into following Jesus. And I've been a part of churches that that was their goal. And I promise you they did it out of a good heart. They wanted me to follow Jesus.

But what it ended up being like is me feeling like if I don't follow Jesus, these people are going to hate me and I'm going to have nowhere to belong. That is not how we function as a church. We are here to extend an invitation to you. If you read through the Gospels, Jesus is never guilting, peer pressuring, or forcing people into following him. He is regularly laying down the invitation and saying, will you come? Will you follow me? And to follow me, it will require sacrifice. It will require laying down your life. But I'm not forcing that on you. I'm not guilting you into that. I am inviting you into a relationship with me. We want to extend invitation to the life that we found. Authentic, true life, genuine community can only be found when we're honest about where we are.

You'll never experience abundant life that Jesus has to offer if you're pretending to be someone you're not. And I know that that is, it's easier sometimes to come in here, to put on your church shirt, to put on your church face, to go back to the coffee bar, to grab your coffee, and to just be like, you know what? Somebody asked me how I'm doing. I'm going to say good because I don't want to get into it right now. If we're going to be effective at doing the thing God's called us to do, we've got to lay down the pretense, and we've got to be honest with people about where we're at. I can't tell you how many times I've walked past conversations in the lobby where I've overheard someone say, how are you doing?

And I've heard the person say back to them, are you sure you want to know? I love that about our church. May that continue to be true about our church. And I'm not saying you have to dump all of your stuff on random strangers you don't know. Sometimes it might take time for you to find the people that you can trust with your stuff. But may we not pretend to be someone we aren't. Throughout the Gospels, especially in John, we see Jesus always inviting people into the light. There's freedom in the light. There's growth in the light. There's victory in the light. And the enemy of God wants you to slink back into the darkness because darkness is where death and destruction happens. Some of you have blown up your lives, and you know, you know for a fact that you never would have blown up your life if you would have just been honest about where you were 10 steps before you blew up your life.

Some of you are in the shadows right now, dealing with all kinds of messy stuff in your life, and you're too afraid to tell somebody about it.

If we're going to be an effective church that obeys the teachings of Jesus, we just got to be honest with where we're at. We are welcome at the foot of the cross. The Father's arms are open wide. And if we are a church, those of you that receive that, if you receive that with guilt or condemnation or shame, this is not the place for you. We receive people's confession, people's failures, people's realities of life. We receive it with grace and with mercy. Lastly, it's Christ-centered. Our church's primary identity is not rooted in a specific theological set of convictions, but rather it's focused on obedience to the life and teachings of Jesus. You can have your theological convictions here. You can believe things deeply. We should wrestle with theology, but at the end of the day, as a church, we don't define ourselves based on our theological convictions.

We define ourselves based on children of the living God, submitted to the lordship of Jesus, and doing whatever we can to obey the teachings that he gave us, which are primarily love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. And you don't have to have a great systematic theology to do that well. The mission statement of our church is rooted in Scripture. It's bathed in prayer, and it's born out of a community of believers. We made this together, some of you in this room. But this is a sermon, and since I haven't read the Bible yet, you guys should be questioning when that's coming. Thank you. I don't want you to think I'm making this stuff up, so let's read from Hebrews. I think this verse really does a good job of summarizing our mission statement as a church.

By his death, Jesus opened up a new and life-giving way through the curtain of the most holy place. And since we have a great high priest who rules over God's house, let us go right into the presence of God with sincere hearts, fully trusting in him. The gospel of Jesus has opened up this free access to God, the Father, through the blood of Jesus. We are welcome as we are. We should come as we are into the presence of God, fully trusting in him. For our guilty conscience had been sprinkled with Christ's blood to make us clean, and our bodies had been washed with pure water. Therefore, let us hold tightly without wavering to the hope that we affirm. If this is the hope that we affirm, if our life is built on being accepted to the creator God of the universe through the blood of Jesus,

we should build our entire lives around that. We should hold tightly to that. We should let nothing take that away from us. For God can be trusted to keep his promises. Let us think of ways to motivate one another to acts of love and good works, and let us not neglect our meeting together, as some people do, but encourage one another, especially now that the days are drawing near. We are a people who are inviting people into authentic community, focused on obedience to Jesus, which leads us to our culture, and I have to go fast, so you'll have to listen even faster. I love the importance that the writer of Hebrews puts on the individual believers to encourage one another to obedience. The reality is we could have paid the best marketing team in the area to write us the catchiest mission statement,

vision statement of all time. We could spend thousands of dollars plastering it all over our building on billboards. We could have gotten it all out there, but the reality is it doesn't matter what we put on paper. If you all and us and me, if we as leaders and those of you in the chairs of the church, serving in the church, taking the mission of the gospel outside of these walls, if you all don't live into what we've said we're about, then it doesn't matter what we have on paper. The culture is built by each individual believer doing the thing that God is calling us to do.

We have four core, what most organizations call core values, but again, the lovely pastor Matt Lewis, who many of us love so very much, would not let us call it core values. He wanted to call it core practices because he said core values don't mean anything, again, if you don't do something about it. So these things are things that we are called to do as individual believers. Each one of these probably requires a sermon in and of itself. Hopefully we'll do that soon, but for now, I'm just going to run through them, give you the elevator pitch. And as I work through these, I'd love for you to consider, are these values that you are actively and intentionally embodying? And if not, what things can you do to begin to embody these? Because what you embody is our culture.

Again, it doesn't matter what I put on paper. What we do as a community of believers is our culture. So this is what we want our culture to be. Are we living this way? First, I won't belabor this point because we talked about it in our mission statement, but our first cultural practice, core practice, is that we prioritize real relationships. Real, emphasis on real. Church isn't a place where we go to worship on Sundays. It is a family that we belong to. We should not rush in and out of this place. We should not just attend when it's convenient for us. We shouldn't only see each other on Sundays. We should be in each other's living rooms, at our kids' extracurricular activities. We should be the ones we call when life kicks us in the teeth.

We prioritize real relationships. And here's the deal. In a room this big, sometimes it can be hard to find that. If you're new here, you might be realizing, you might be seeing, wow, there's a lot of circles of people that are happening in this building, and it seems like people have these relationships. They're in each other's lives, but I can't find it. That's on us, partially, and it's also on you. We've got to work together. This takes time for you to build relationships of trust. And if you're new here, just know that we want you to find that community here. We want you to find a place where you can belong, where you can be real, where you can be honest, where you have somebody to call when life kicks you in the teeth. Second, we unite for the sake of the gospel.

This is one that I am super passionate about, and lucky for us, Jesus is passionate about it too. John 17, the final prayer that he prays before going to the cross, he prays that the church would be one as he and the Father are one. The stakes of the gospel are too high for us to fight and divide over secondary theology. Far too many churches split over issues that are complex and difficult, and that the smartest biblical scholars on earth today could spend hours and hours debating over and never come to the right conclusion. Why? Why on earth would we split and go to a church down the road because we disagree with something complex that we're both probably wrong on at the end of the day? The amount of times I've seen people walk out of churches because they're like,

oh, they believe this and I believe this, and I'm like, you're probably both wrong. The gospel has to be the primary thing that we focus on. Obedience to Jesus, it has to be our focus. We should talk about, wrestle through theological disagreements and interpretations of the text. It makes us better. It gets us closer to the truth. But if they aren't crucial to the message of the gospel, we should learn to live in unity with one another. Make sense? All right. Third, we rely on the written and living word of God. At Canvas Community Church, we long to be a people of the word. We believe the Bible is inspired by God. And it contained within this from Genesis to Revelation is a unified and redemptive story. Watch my back, all right? Why are you guys laughing?

Oh, Scott's got it. All right. Don't mess with Scott. We are a people of the word. We believe the Bible is inspired by God. It is a unified and redemptive story that points to Jesus. This is why we say we rely on not just the written word, but the living word. John 1 says that Jesus is the word became flesh, dwelt among us. This Bible all points to Jesus, who is the ultimate fulfillment and ultimate revelation of who God is and what he's like. Every decision we make and belief we have should be rooted in the Scriptures and the life teaching, life and teachings of Jesus. It's a lifelong process of learning and surrender. Here's what I would say. If your ideas about God have not changed over a year, two years, five years, ten years of interacting with the Scriptures and community with other believers.

If you, like, if your Bible teacher, ten years ago taught you what this verse means and you're just like, he told me that's what it means and that's what it means and I don't care what else. You are, you are, you are, you are in danger. Constantly evaluate your beliefs and your lifestyle on the Scripture of Jesus. If you just embrace a teaching that somebody gave you and you don't think through it and you don't work through it in community with others, you will get stuck in a rut of fundamental religious theology and the Holy Spirit won't have any room to, to mold you and to make you into the person he's inviting you to be. This book is a two-edged sword. It's a lifelong process of learning. He's inviting us to be challenged by the Scriptures.

Fourthly, we, lastly, we cultivate our spiritual gifts to serve others. Each and every person who has submitted their life to Jesus has been given a spiritual gift. We've been called to serve together in community. The church is not a spectator sport. There aren't star players and bench players. We all have a unique role to play. And if we opt out, the whole church misses out.

Okay, non-sportsball people. I'm gonna give one more sportsball illustration. You okay? Today is probably the most boring week in NFL football because most of the playoffs have already been decided. So there's a ton of games that mean absolutely nothing for anyone except for the people that are trying to get bonus money for whatever reason. And there has been talk all this week about which of the star players are gonna sit on the bench so they don't get hurt before the playoff. Because certain players in football are more important than other players. Not so in the church. Not so in the church. I don't care what your spiritual gift is, what your calling is. I don't care if what you do is done in the back room when nobody sees it or knows it. We talked about it this morning.

Dave Calhoun does something in the back room that most of you probably didn't even know about. But if he didn't do it, we would miss out. We all have a valuable, important part to play. And listen, it's okay to rest for a season. It's okay to heal for a season. Our church tends to be a church that people come to when they're just beaten down. When they've gotten broken down by the church. And if you need a season of rest, if you need to just process the pain that you've been through with God and you're like, I'm not ready to jump in and start serving or do any of that, that's okay. This is a place, a safe place where you can rest, where you can take a break. But at the end of the day, don't let that break extend too long because all of us are called to be in regular participation in the church.

It should be the goal of every follower of Jesus. Romans 12 says this, In his grace, God has given us different gifts for doing certain things well. So if God has given you the ability to prophesy, speak with as much faith as God has given you. If your gift is serving others, serve them well. If you are a teacher, teach well. If your gift is to encourage others, be encouraging. If it is giving, give generously. If God has given you leadership ability, take responsibility seriously. Listen to podcasts and read audio books. I'm just kidding.

And if you have a gift for showing kindness to others, do it gladly. If you've been given a gift, pour it out with gladness. I love this. Don't just pretend to love others. Don't do the churchy version of I'm thinking about you and praying for you and not follow up. Don't just pretend to love others. Really love them. Hate what is wrong. Hold tightly to what is good. Love each other with a genuine affection and take delight in honoring each other. Never be lazy, but work hard and serve the Lord enthusiastically. Rejoice in our confident hope. Be patient in trouble and keep on praying. When God's people are in need, be ready to help them. Always be eager to practice hospitality. Which leads me to the last point on the outline. Aren't you guys so thankful?

You guys listen fast. We're there. We've made it to our point of emphasis. And I'm not the type of person that usually like has a word for the year. How many people like to do a word for the year? I think it's awesome. I would love to be able to do a word for the year. I just like, I'm a perfectionist when it comes to those things. So I'll sit and I'll get a word. And I'll be like, nope, that's not good enough. So I want like, anyway, I just can't do it. But this year, as I reflected on 2024 and thought and prayed and talked to the leaders of our church about the future of our church, I kept coming back to one major point of emphasis for our church. I actually had like a phrase in mind that just keeps coming back,

keeps repeating over and over and over in my head. And that phrase is make room. Always be eager to practice hospitality. Make room for God and for one another. The world around us is increasingly busy and distracted. We are being pulled in a million different directions. I'm sure if you look at your calendar for January, the first month, the month that's supposed to be slow, everything's closed, snow is falling, your calendar's probably already filled to the brim. Followers of Jesus have to be intentional to make space for God to direct our lives so that we can be obedient to the things that he's calling us to. Not only that, but our city is growing. Our neighborhood is expanding. We all have people in our lives we are praying to come that will come to know and follow Jesus.

This is the part that's not going to be fun for some of you, okay? Just warning you. Just give me 10 minutes, we'll be done, and hopefully I'll answer some of your fears, your questions. I don't know if you tried to find a parking spot this morning or check in a kid lately, but we're pretty much out of space.

So if we're going to be a church that regularly invites people to find a Christ-centered community to live into, we've got to be intentional about making room for people. So this is something we're praying about as a leadership team. We invite your feedback. We're praying about the possibility of launching a second service on Easter Sunday this year. Not only do we need to make room in the building, this is not just about this gathering, Sunday morning gathering. We need to expand our small groups. There are people in here who want to have community, who want to get out of rows and into circles, and they can't find it because we don't have enough room, we don't have enough space for people in our living rooms. So that's something that you might be passionate about, you might feel called to.

And even if you don't feel passionate or called to it, let me read the end of that passage again, because I'm not super passionate, nor do I feel called to it. But the Scriptures say, always be eager to practice hospitality. There are about 150 apartments getting put in right behind our lot. Do we want space for those people to find the message of Jesus, to be embraced into a community where they can be loved and cared for and taught and trained what true abundant life looks like? Always be eager to practice hospitality. Now, I realize that this probably is not exciting news for a lot of us. I know that there are many of us in this room who have had bad experiences with bigger churches. You're afraid of losing the family atmosphere that we have here.

Did I just insert some of the thoughts? I've had conversations with some of you, so I'm actually quoting you back to you. That's the problem when you talk to the pastor. Sometimes he'll quote you back to you. I get it. Let me share two quick thoughts that I think will help. First, my heart's desire for us is not to become a big church. I have no desire or ambition to lead a big church if it were up to me. If we go to two services and I'll grow two services, I would love for us to do something like plant a church or partner with other churches who are struggling. I have no desire to raise money to build a bigger building. This is the building I hope to die in. And not because it's nice, but because it'll be paid for.

If we're going to raise money, let's raise money to do something for people in need in our community. So let's make as much space as we can make in this building, and when we run out of space, then we'll go send some people out, and we'll do whatever we can to embody the gospel of Jesus in our community. So I don't want us to be big. That's not the goal here. Second, this is where I think some of you will like this. I'm not super excited about it either. I love our church as it is, and I would be content to close the doors and keep it like this forever. One problem. Any guesses? The Great Commission, all right? I can't tell you the amount of times I've been like, let's just close the doors.

And I'm like, oh, wait. Go into all the world, make disciples. Like, that's why we exist. So I have personally wrestled with this possibility, this struggle for a while, and God keeps bringing me back to a passage in Mark chapter 6. We don't have time to read it, so I've summarized the Cliff Notes version in the outline. And the disciples have been sent out two by two to do miraculous things in the name of Jesus. They come back. They're exhausted from a hard season of ministry. What they want more than anything. And what Jesus wants for them, he invites them to go take a break. He says, we're going to go to a desert place, to a desolate place, to a lonely place, and rest a while. That is what they wanted, and that is what Jesus wanted for them.

So they set sail for a remote getaway. Anybody remembering this story? And when they arrive, they find what? A remote, desolate place for a nice, restful, relaxing time? Nope. They find a large crowd of people who are waiting there for them. And it says that Jesus saw them, and he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd.

He sat there, and he taught them, and he encouraged them, and he invited them to participate in his kingdom for hours. And the disciples, in classic disciple fashion, are like, all right, enough with that. Can we send them home? Because they're all hungry. They're getting annoying. We're hangry. Can we just end this already? And in classic Jesus fashion, he says, you feed them. And then in classic discipleship, disciples fashion, they say, how? We have two fish and five little rolls. This is a classic Jesus disciple conversation. So Jesus does what only Jesus can do, and he multiplies what the disciples have until the entire crowd is fed, and there is more than enough food left over. This passage has a ton of implications, theologically and personally, but I think the reason that God keeps coming back to me with it is

if we will intentionally make room for God and for one another, we will sit back, and we will watch and multiply our efforts. I don't know what that looks like. I hope that it doesn't mean that we fill up a second service, because I really don't want to have to deal with what's next after that.

But if we will make space for God in our individual lives, in our small groups, in our church, if we will make space for God to give us clarity and direction about what he wants us to do, and we'll make space for other people, I think God is going to do incredibly, exceedingly, abundantly, more than we could ever ask, think, or imagine. If we are willing to lay down our preferences for what we want for our church, if I am willing to lay down, I've been dragging my feet on this decision for a long time, if we can be willing to lay down our preferences, God might have something even better in store for us. Has this ever happened to you? Have you ever tried not to do something for so long and then didn't realize that it was better than what you had before?

Some of you are like, we're not having another kid, we're not having another kid, we're not having another kid. Pregnant. All right. Life's better, right?

So, throughout the month of January, we're going to be asking you to create some space for God to speak to you about what he wants you to do. Create some space for us to ask him what he wants our church to do. This is not set in stone. We are not for sure going to do this. But if we do have to do it, we need to start making plans now. So, throughout the month of January, there's going to be a table in the lobby. You might have seen it. There are volunteer spots available that if we go to two services, we will have to have more people doing. Now, here's what I want you to know. Do not do this out of guilt. Do not do this out of a sense of duty. If you are the type of person that just does what the teacher tells you to do,

so that you're the teacher's favorite, take some time and pray, and make sure that God is inviting you to do this before you do it. Because the last thing I want you to do is to do something that God doesn't want you to do, because I asked you to do it. I want you to do what God wants you to do. And if we don't have enough volunteers to launch a second service, we won't launch a second service. God will provide what he needs us to have to do the thing he needs us to do. So, spend some time this month creating space for God. Maybe you're here. You're not currently serving. Maybe he's inviting you to join a team. Maybe you serve once or twice a month, and once we go to two services, you'd be willing to serve more.

Maybe there's a ministry that God's calling you to start that we don't have as a church that would help us to effectively reach more people with the gospel of Jesus. Maybe the future pastor of our next church plant is sitting in the room right now today. I don't know. I'm not God. All I'm doing is telling you, I think a point of emphasis for us for 2025 is to begin to plan for and to prepare and to make space for the people that God is calling us to reach, for the people that are on your prayer list every morning, the people in your workplace, the people in your family, the people that you are desperately praying that they would come to know Jesus. We want you to have space to bring them here. All right.

Can I be honest with you? I hate doing that. It feels like a pitch for our building and our organization, but I feel led by God that this is something that we should at least begin to plan and prepare for. And let's trust God. Let's do what God wants us to do. And if it's not this, then I will come back up here and say, apparently I was wrong. And we'll do something else. But let's stay committed to inviting real people with real lives into a Christ-centered community. Let's invest in real relationships. Let's build our spiritual gifts to serve others, cultivate our spiritual gifts to serve others. Good grief. I'll get it. Don't worry. Let's rely on the written and living word of God. I did them out of order and that always messes me up.

Unite for the sake of the gospel. My favorite one. All right. I asked Donovan and Liz to lead us in a final song that I want to be kind of a theme song for us this year, because whatever make room means, it might not mean two services. I don't know. But whatever it means, I truly believe that God wants us to make room for him and to make room for one another. So let's sing as we get ready to leave. Let's sing as we get ready to leave.

Here is where I'm laying down Every burden, every crown This is my surrender This is my surrender Here is where I'm laying down Every lie and every doubt This is my surrender This is my surrender And I will make room for you To do whatever you want to To do whatever you want to And I will make room for you To do whatever you want to To do whatever you want to Here is where I lay it down Every burden, every crown Every burden, every crown This is my surrender This is my surrender Here is where I lay it down Every lie and every doubt This is my surrender And I will make room for you To do whatever you want to To do whatever you want to And I will make room for you

To do whatever you want to To do whatever you want to And shake up the ground Of all my tradition Break down the walls Of all my religion Your way is better Oh, your way is better And shake up the ground Of all my tradition Break down the walls Of all my religion Your way is better Oh, your way is better And shake up the ground Of all my tradition Break down the walls Of all my religion Your way is better Oh, your way is better And I will make room For you To do whatever you want to To do whatever you want to To do whatever you want to And I will make room for you To do whatever you want to And I will make room for you To do whatever you want to

To do whatever you want to To do whatever you want to God I second guessed about every leadership decision I've ever made in my life Just let you into my closet Here's one decision I'm not second guessing If you and I If each one of us If we will make room For God to do whatever he wants to do Whether it has anything to do With anything I said this morning If we as people of God Will make room Space To hear from him Allow the Holy Spirit To give us direction Guidance and wisdom And if we would be bold enough To obey it Even if it sounds crazy We will never regret it Stand up I'd love to pray for you As I send you out It's a prayer of benediction That comes from the Scripture

We read this morning Father Father in heaven May we be a people Who don't just pretend to love others But really love them May we hate what is wrong And hold tightly to what is good May we love each other With genuine affection And take delight In giving honor to one another May we not be lazy But may we work hard And serve you enthusiastically May we rejoice in hope And be patient in trouble And keep on praying God May we be a church of prayer May this be a house of prayer And may we always be eager To practice hospitality For our good For the good of our neighbor And for your glory Amen Happy New Year church Go in peace And watch a bunch of NFL games That don't mean anything Next birthday

Do whatever you want to And I will make room For you To do whatever you want to To do whatever you want to To do whatever you want to
