Psalm 133
2025-09-01
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mw9B7VdO9NQ

Amen.

Good morning. How are y'all doing this morning? I love the energy. So grateful to be here. I am committing what I call a preacher's cardinal sin this morning. And it's not the denim jacket, I know. I know some of you are thinking that it's the denim jacket. It's not. I am preaching a sermon right as I get back from vacation, which means I am so rested and rejuvenated that you guys should have packed a lunch. I hope you did. We're going to be here for a while. No, I'm kidding. We are wrapping up our series on the summer in the Psalms. It's our last Sunday on the summer of Psalms. It's also our first Sunday back for many of our college students. I saw some of you already. I'm so glad that y'all are back.

So excited to see you all over here. Yes. Bring in the energy, the youth, the vitality. And they will probably talk to me afterwards about the denim jacket. We'll get it straightened out. I'll figure out what's cool again, and it'll be great. But like I said, we're wrapping up our series on the Psalms. We said that the Psalms is primarily a book that speaks for us rather than speaking to us. Most of the Scripture speaks to us. The Psalms give us language that we can then take and reclaim and use back to God in our prayers. We've been doing kind of a mini-series on the Psalms of Ascent towards the end of this series. The Psalms of Ascent are what most scholars agree on, are this group of psalms that they would sing as the nation of Israel made their three pilgrimages to Jerusalem for the three festivals that the Lord laid out for them to come.

This is a collective playlist that they would sing together as they made their journey to Jerusalem. And we intentionally put these at the end because we are getting ready to transition in this fall into a series on community and service. And we will be launching our small groups. And so I wanted to remind us at the end of this psalm series that the Scriptures really are a communal book. This is not just a book for you to read in your individual devotional life between you and God. This is a book for us to read together in community. And so if you don't have community, if you're not plugged into a smaller group of people, it doesn't have to be a canvas-sanctioned small group. But if you are not plugged into a group of believers that you can read the Scriptures with together in a circle and not just in a row, we want to encourage you to find that.

We have some new small groups launching here in just a few weeks, some small groups that have lots of openings. That you can join in with a brand new crew of people. We also have a regular rhythm of small group that meets here on Sunday nights for new people. It's every other week. It's not this Sunday. It'll be next Sunday. So we want you to find your people that you can read the Scriptures with together. You can also sign up for passages classes where you can get together in smaller groups. This is something that we believe wholeheartedly at our church, that we don't want people to just show up. It's great if that's your first step. If you're testing this whole thing out, if you're dipping your toe in the water, that's great. Keep coming.

Don't worry about getting in a circle yet. But eventually, that is our goal for all of you. Sound good? All right. And I don't think it's a coincidence. I think it's God's timing that I am scheduled to preach a psalm that is focused on Christian unity. This morning, the same week that I need to address some concerns that I have received from some of you that others in our leadership have received from some of you. So before we hop into the text, we have some housekeeping to do as a community. Does that sound okay? It'll be short, I promise. But I don't think it's a coincidence that we are about to hop into a psalm focused on the unity of God's people when we need to address this issue. I have had several people who have come to me and others in our leadership who are concerned about the Blazing Hope fundraiser that we announced because it includes a alcohol.

Yes. And that's good. It's important that we have these conversations as community. And so first and foremost, I want to thank all of you that came to me or another person on our leadership team directly with any concerns or questions or confusion that you might have. Because as we get into unity, we're going to realize that true unity, real unity around the gospel of Jesus only happens when we're willing to have these conversations face-to-face, person-to-person. Right? And so if you have come to us with your concerns, your questions, your confusion, I am so thankful for you. If you have come to other people behind the backs of leadership with confusion, questions, concerns, that's fine. But please come to us directly in the future. We love to have these conversations. We're not afraid to have conversations.

I'm not afraid to be wrong. I am wrong multiple times a day. Okay? So please, don't be afraid to come to me or our leadership. You all, our membership selects our board members. So you have picked these people that help us make decisions and that you can come to with questions and concerns. So thank you so much for doing that. And secondly, I personally, as the leader of this group in some way, shape, or form, we are a collective leadership team. But me, a lot of the brunt falls on me. I want to apologize to you for the confusion that this fundraiser has caused for some of you. And I want to give you some clarity on the why so that we understand, like, how we got to the decision that we made. Because I think sometimes the why helps us have empathy and understanding, even if we don't fully agree with the decision, that we can have empathy with the people who made the decisions.

Does that sound fair? So as Andy talked about this morning, Blazing Hope is a nonprofit Christian organization that we heavily support in their mission of restoring women survivors of sex trafficking. Can we all yes and amen that mission? Yes. Thank you. A large part of their funding for the entire year, they do this annual fundraiser. It's a banquet that they hold on a regular, an annual basis. And unfortunately, this year, the staff person who was in charge of planning that event left their organization abruptly and unexpectedly, leaving them unable to hold this event that helps them raise the funds for their entire year's budget. And so they scrambled. They reached out to other organizations that support them. And they said, would you be willing to hold many banquets in your town, in your area, to help us recoup the funds that we're going to lose from this fundraiser?

And a number of our church members stepped up in a pinch to help them plan this event. They used a common playbook for nonprofit fundraisers that included a cash bar. And I believe a lot of the confusion, frustration, questions came when we kind of advertised this as an event that our church was putting on. That's my fault. It's not our church putting on this event. It is blazing hope putting on this event. And many of our members joined in to help them pull this off, which we are so thankful for each of you that did that. We, as an organization, believe that alcohol consumption is an issue of the conscious for the believer. It's addressed in Romans 14. I preached an entire sermon on it a while ago. I'm going to share that in the newsletter this week.

If you want more context on these issues of conscious and how we should treat one another in the midst of disagreements on disputable matters, please check that out and come to me with any questions or challenges that you have. I would highly encourage you to check that out. It also, I was going to share it before I even decided to do this because it's a more practical application to my message on Psalm 133 that we're about to get into. We decided to make this opportunity available to our people because it's an opportunity to help meet the needs of one of our ministry partners who is doing crucial gospel work. If an event with a cash bar is not something that you're able to attend because of your conscience or the price of the event is too much, we still want you to help support Blazing Hope.

There are volunteer options. You can donate any dollar amount directly to them. We would love for you to support them. And finally, I want to remind us of Paul's words in 1 Corinthians where he states that I became all things to all people that I might win some. That the gospel motivates everything that we do in seeking to reach people and a huge majority of the events that our church people are involved in do not include alcohol intentionally because we want our church to be accessible and hospitable to those who struggle with alcoholism, those who avoid alcohol because of their conscience. However, at times there are events our people are involved in that do include alcohol. And I want to remind us that these events provide opportunities for us to bridge a cultural gap with people who would never come to our church on a Sunday morning.

There are people who would never feel comfortable showing up to this space just yet, but there are environments that they will show up to with their questions about Jesus. And I just want to remind us that the gospel that Paul says, I became all things to all people that I might win some. So we as an organization want to be hospitable and find ways to bridge cultural gaps. And lastly, I want to remind us of a few of other Paul's words in Romans 15 where he says, accept one another then just as Christ has accepted you in order to bring praise to God. So we are getting ready to hop into a sermon on unity and I realize that there's tension in this issue and that is okay, we're allowed to disagree about things like this.

But in our disagreement, may we remember to accept one another as Christ has accepted you in order to bring praise to God. Because what we're going to find out in our text this morning is that unity, Christian unity is the primary motivation that's going to bring praise to God to the world around us. Sound good? All right, let's pray and we'll do the thing that I actually get paid to do, which is preach a sermon. All right, Father in heaven, we thank you that there is one body, one Lord, one Savior, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father over all who unites us in Christ Jesus. God, all of us have temptations and struggles and things that we deal with on a regular basis that seek to lead us away from obedience to you, God.

And we want to have nothing to do with those temptations. We want to run in obedience to you. And God, we want to be bridge builders to people who are outside of your church. We want to do that in a healthy way, in a way that models obedience to all of your creation. We want to eat food and we want to do everything we do for the glory of God and the good of our neighbor. And God, when we seek to do that, we will make missteps. We will screw up. May we have grace for one another. And may we find unity in the gospel of Jesus. That is the bridge that brings all sinners back to God. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thank you all for letting me do that. And again, please talk to me.

Talk to our leadership. We'd love to have conversations with you. If you have your Bible, Psalm 133 is going to be our psalm for the day. It is three verses. It is short. It is easy to understand and, as you will see, hard to apply. As I was meditating on, studying this passage, I stumbled across an article in Time magazine that I think provides a helpful summary to some of the biggest issues that we are facing in our current cultural moment. To summarize, the author of this article argues that Americans are busy. Can anybody yes and amen that Americans are busy? All right. Americans are busy. We're working long hours. We're running from extracurricular to extracurricular. This business, this busyness creates loneliness. Can anybody else yes and amen that many of us are lonely? The statistics would back this up.

We are busy. We are lonely. We don't have meaningful relationships. This loneliness causes us to look for microwave connections online. Algorithms create digital echo chambers, and we are never really exposed to people who disagree with us because our algorithms feed us what we want to hear. And so we think that everyone agrees with every opinion that we have. Anybody yes and amen this as the current cultural temperature of our day? The result is that we are an extremely divided culture of lonely and isolated people. I don't know about you, but I feel like the author is on to something in this article. And although I think we're facing loneliness and division in some unique ways in our current cultural moment, this is not a new problem. From our fall in the garden, the beginning of the first book of the Bible, the people that God made to live in unity with himself and with one another have become divided.

We've separated from God, and we've separated from one another, immediately blame-shifting, right? Adam and Eve are like, the woman you gave me, the snake that's here in this garden that you allowed to be here, right? We blame-shift, we isolate, and it doesn't take very long for us to start killing each other. Genesis chapter 4, right? Four chapters into God's good creation, his building us together in a garden, unifying us with one another and with him. And at the fall, we all started to move away from God and move away from one another. And since the fall, the good news is that God has been moving back towards us. He invites individuals to form a new community, first the nation of Israel and then the church, centered around two primary commands, to love God and to love one another.

This group of people was intended to be a counter-witness to the divided and isolated culture around us, a priesthood, inviting God's image-bearers back into relationship with him and fellowship with one another. That God has been moving towards us and our division of dividing against him and dividing against one another. He has been moving towards us and he has been inviting individuals back into relationship with himself and that we would cultivate a community where we're united with one another. And that would be a counter-witness to the divided world around us. So with all of that as a backdrop, I don't think you would find it shocking to realize that one of the final songs on this playlist, the Psalms of Ascent playlist, as they're traveling together, this divided group of people that have been invited to be unified around the God of the Old Testament, Yahweh, that they are moving towards him.

It's funny, it's funny, it's not funny, it's beautiful, that God forces them to come together three times a year to remind themselves of what they're really united about. And in this playlist of songs that they're moving towards Jerusalem, it's no shocker that David writes a specific song about unity, reminding them of what their primary directive is. That they are intended to remind themselves that they were created for fellowship with one another and with God. So, can we stand and read Psalm 133 together as an example of our unity? I'd love it if you all just read the whole thing with me. It's only three verses, so we should be able to knock it out. This is a song of the ascents of David. Verse one, how good and pleasant it is when God's people live together in unity.

It is like a precious oil poured on the head, running down on the beard, running down on Aaron's beard, down on the collar of his robe. It is as if the dew of Hermon were falling on Mount Zion, for there the Lord bestows his blessings. Even life forever more. Amen. You be seated.

So, the thesis of David's song is pretty clear in verse one. David is saying, it is good and pleasant when God's people dwell in unity. I actually, because I was on vacation, I finished my sermon on Monday, so there are notes in the bulletin this week. If you like that kind of thing, you can follow along with the notes on the back. But David's thesis is pretty clear. It is good and pleasant when God's people dwell in unity. It is rare and difficult, but it is worth the effort that is required. And David goes on to use two poetic images that work both on a practical and a spiritual level. Don't you love Scripture? It's obvious on the surface, but if you keep digging deeper, there's even more truth to be mined out from these two images.

The first image is this, that unity is pleasant like a sweet-smelling perfume. On a practical level, precious oil was a luxury in this world. It was moisturizing and sweet-smelling in a world where baths were hard to come by, right? We got dirty, sun-dried, leathery human beings, and oil is hard to come by. Only wealthy people would have access to this. This oil would refresh their skin. It would moisturize them, and it would bring pleasant-smelling aromas all around them. The oil would be noticeable to everyone around them for days. At the practical surface level application here, David is saying that when God's people dwell in unity, it becomes pleasant and enticing. It is an aroma, a sweet-smelling aroma to everyone around us. It is refreshing and encouraging, and it noticeably changes the environment around us.

Anointed people have something rare that others around them do not. And the question at this point in the message that we should be pondering is, are we cultivating a type of unity that is noticeable to those around us? Is our unity rare to the world that is isolated and divided? And if not, why? It's what David is saying. Christian community is intended to be something that you can't get anywhere else. It's something that you need, that you long for, that even if you don't know you need it, when it walks in the room, you realize it. And as a called-out priesthood of believers that find themselves in Christ's church, are we cultivating a unity, a relationship, a depth of unity that people around us, people outside these walls, people who aren't plugged into churches, are they looking at our relationship with one another?

The way that we handle difficult conversations about disagreements? The way that we handle disunity? Are we creating the type of unity that is pleasant and sweet-smelling to those around us? Is it rare? And if not, why? Are we missing out on one of the primary directives that we have been invited to participate in by not cultivating this unity that is pleasant and rare and sweet-smelling to the world around us? Very practical application. But David takes it a step deeper. And this image becomes not just practical, but spiritual. He's not just talking about any oil. He's talking about a very specific oil on a very specific person. He's talking about the anointing oil that would anoint Aaron as the high priest. This is an oil that was, there was a special recipe for this oil given directly from God to Israel

for the purpose of anointing the tabernacle and the priests. And I love how Tim Mackey puts it. He argues that part of the significance of this oil is that it is the life of Eden compressed. It is all of God's good creation compressed into liquid form, and it is used by God to set people apart and set places apart to be a holy, a distinct bridge between heaven and earth. So the tabernacle became a bridge between heaven and earth. We've been divided from God, divided from one another. And the tabernacle and the priest were these intentional symbols set up to bridge the gap between heaven and earth, to unify heaven and earth. David isn't just arguing that God's people living in unity is like a pleasant aroma, but that when we dwell in unity, we are set apart, holy, functioning as representatives who are becoming a bridge that connects heaven to earth.

Our unity is intended to be a bridge to connect heaven to earth, to show all of the people, all of the image bearers of God, what God intended in his creation, that we would be connected to him and connected to one another in unity. But this is where the reality of life comes face to face with the beautiful imagery of this song. I think all of us would agree with and pursue this reality as a general hypothetical pursuit, right? All of us would say, yeah, unity is pleasant. It is nice. It's wonderful. Everyone around us, we just know about it when we walk in. We should pursue this. But what about when I start naming the specific types of people with the specific opinions on meaningful things like theology, politics, and name your pet peeve subject or topic, right?

We all agree unity is pleasant, like sweet-smelling perfume, but what if I started listing the names of people, the types of people with the types of opinions? Would it be as exciting to pursue? It gets hard real quick, right? And I think this is baked into David's imagery. He says it's like a precious oil poured on the head, running down onto the beard, Aaron's beard, right? Very specific. The high priest is running down on the high priest's beard, down on the collar of his robe. You can almost see the imagery, right? Starts on the head, it's moving down to the beard, it's moving down from the beard to the collar. Where would it move next after it rolled down the collar? Just imagine this with me. As I was meditating on this imagery, I just saw the oil dripping from the collar to the chest of the robe.

And those of you that know your Old Testament, you know what's on Aaron's chest. Does anybody remember what's on Aaron's chest? 12 stones for the 12 tribes of Israel. And I can just hear the people of Israel bemoaning this imagery. Like, yes, unity, sweet smelling, perfume, it's dripping down. And then immediately they're confronted with the fact that David is talking about unity between all the 12 tribes of Israel.

Very diverse group of people with very diverse opinions and culture about all kinds of different things. I think we're so removed from the culture. We're like, what? They're one nation? They all stem from one family? It should be easy for them to be unified, right?

We're talking about 12 sons from four different mothers. Any blended families in here? Yeah? Unity? Easy? We all think alike, we all act alike, we all talk alike, right? No, this is not a group of people that would find it easy to be unified with one another. They're spread out geographically. I use ChatGPT to tell me what state in America would be like the closest to the size of biblical Israel, New Jersey. My wife's from New Jersey. She's from South Jersey. South Jersey and North Jersey are very different places with very different types of people. Just ask them. Just ask them, right? So what we're talking about here is we're not talking about some beautiful poetic imagery about a group of people who God just created in this special, unique place where he isolated them only with people who think exactly like them, where unity is easy and perfect to come by.

We're talking about 12 sons from four different mothers displaced across the geography of the state of New Jersey. This is not easy to create unity with this group of people. We can take it out of the Old Testament into the New Testament. We can look at the disciples of Jesus. We've got fishermen, we've got tax collectors, and we've got zealots. These are not the type of people that would hang out at a pub together after a long day's work, right? These are people that if they had to choose, they would not go near each other. And yet the gospel of Jesus is calling them together around one unified table to create a unity that is pleasant and sweet-smelling like perfume to the world around us. This is not easy. This is not an echo chamber of people that have all of the same theology as you do and all of the same politics as you do.

This is a diverse group of people that all find their unity around Jesus Christ, crucified, risen, ascended into heaven, and coming again. That is where our unity is found. And for many of us, that's all we have in common. And yet the directive is that we would be unified for the sake of the world around us. We move from the Old Testament to the disciples to the church, where in Galatians we find that Paul says the church is male, female, slave, free, Jew, Gentile. These categories of people could not have different mindsets or opinions about things, and yet Paul is saying your unity should be found in Jesus. I draw all of this out to say, I think most of us read things like Psalm 133. We find it beautiful and compelling, and we likely agree with the premise.

But most of us settle for a much more watered-down application. We might be able to find somewhat meaningful unity with our tribe, but all the tribes, it's like, ah, these non-denominational people, they're pretty cool. They're chilling. They do fundraisers with cash bars. I can get down with them. Right? The Methodists, the Baptists, the Catholics who professed Christ, crucified, risen, and coming again. The Greek Orthodox who professed Christ, faith in Jesus. Right? Like, this is a big family. And oftentimes we settle for a watered-down version of unity. But David's prophetic charge to us this morning is that watered-down unity isn't a sweet-smelling aroma of Christ. Watered-down unity does not do the thing that the unity that God called us to do does. It is not a witness to the world around us if we just gather together with people who have the same exact theology as us and the same exact politics as us and come from the same exact demographic as us.

This does nothing for the world around us. So, like, good for you. We have social clubs, too, where we all get together with people who agree with us.

This type of unity does not set us apart to be a bridge between heaven and earth. So, what does watered-down unity look like? Just to get really practical, really quick. I told you I shouldn't preach after I get home from vacation. First, uniformity. Right? We create a unity where everyone just looks like us. Everyone votes like us, believes like us, talks like us, acts like us. This is not the type of unity that David is calling God's people to. The second type of watered-down unity that I think oftentimes we, I, struggle with more than that is avoidance. We're like, I have unity with people, but only because we never talk about the hard things. That's not the type of unity that David is prophetically inviting God's people to. It's not the type of unity that Christ has invited us to.

We have to be willing to have the difficult conversations and find unity around Christ in the midst of our disagreements on things that are less important than Christ. Amen. The type of unity we are being invited into is centered on the life, death, resurrection, ascension, and coming again of Jesus. It invites us to become family with Christians living in both Israel and Palestine, Russia, and Ukraine. It invites both the wealthy business owner and the struggling mother to the single mother to the same communion table, the Democrat and the Republican, the Pentecostal, the Baptist, the Methodist, and the Mennonite, all finding common ground on Calvary's Hill for the sake of inviting the isolated and divided world around us to find salvation in Christ. For those of you that aren't super tapped into theological discussions, Pentecostal, Baptist, Methodist, and Mennonites have some pretty significant disagreements on some pretty meaningful things.

Did that on purpose for those of you that are tapped in to be like, wait, what? Yes, that, unity in that. I'm reminded of the famous quote that says, in essentials, unity, in non-essentials, liberty, and in all things, charity. I am not saying that our differences of opinion, culture, and theology don't matter. I'm saying they don't matter as much as unity. David's prophetic song is an invitation for all God's people to do the hard work to cultivate unity amidst diversity so that we might be a sweet-smelling aroma to the world around us, set apart as a bridge between heaven and earth. He moves on from this imagery of anointing oil to this imagery of water. Second point I have here is unity is refreshing like water in a dry land. This image, just like the oil, works on a practical and a spiritual level, which we'll get into.

First, on a practical level, I don't have to spend a lot of time explaining this. All of you have had a drink of ice-cold water after a long, hot day in the sun. We know how this works, right? Water brings life and vitality and rejuvenation to a dry and barren land. And David here says that unity is like the dew of Hermon. It's like as if the dew of Hermon were falling on Mount Zion, where the Lord bestows his blessing. Mount Hermon is in the northern boundary of biblical Israel. It's close to 7,000 feet higher in elevation than Mount Zion in Jerusalem, where the temple is. Because of its geography, it would have snow caps much of the year. Even as things got drier down below, the people of Israel would be able to look up and see the moisture,

see the refreshing water. As the snow melted, it fed the springs that flowed into the Jordan River and provided much of the needed water for the dry and weary land. And the question that we should be asking ourselves at this point in the psalm is, are we cultivating a type of unity that is refreshing to those around us? That is like ice-cold water to a dry and weary land. If we agree with the premise that we are a busy, lonely, isolated people, are we as followers of Jesus doing the hard work to cultivate united relationships, deep, meaningful relationships that are like a fresh drink of water to the world around us? And if not, why? This image also goes beyond just the practical level. Notice he mentions, it's as if the dew of Mount Hermon were falling on Mount Zion.

He says that God's people living in unity is if the dew from Mount Hermon would fall on Mount Zion. I'm not a scientist, so I had to do some research here. That's not possible. With how far away these two mountains were because of the geographical distance, this would be impossible for the water from Hermon to become dew on Mount Zion, apart from a miracle, which is what I want us to wrestle with this morning. Because I think God's people dwelling in unity is impossible apart from the miraculous work of the Holy Spirit. This is not something we can just bear down, grit our teeth, and do on our own. And we need the Holy Spirit to unify us together in the midst of our very tense and very meaningful disagreements.

It would take a miracle for God's people to dwell in unity. But thanks be to God, we worship a God who does miracles. Right? Thanks be to God that we worship a God who raised Jesus from the dead, so I think he can take a couple of Democrats and a couple of Republicans and put them in the same small group. And maybe we would learn to love each other in the midst of our disagreements, because the thing that unites us is far more important than the thing that we disagree on. And let's not forget that some of the last words that we have recorded from Jesus before he goes to the cross is a prayer for his people to live in unity. Jesus prays for us to be miraculously united by the power of the Spirit.

He says, so that the world around us will know that he is God. And I don't know what things you pray for, I typically don't pray for things that are probably going to happen even if I don't pray. Right? Like Jesus isn't praying for something that he thinks is just going to naturally happen. All of these united, male, female, slave free, Jew, Gentile, they're just going to naturally fall into a united relationship. Jesus is praying for this because he knows it is going to take a miraculous work of the Spirit. He's inviting God the Father to send the Spirit to do a miraculous work amongst us so that we might be united so that the world around us will know that he is who he says he is. My main point for this morning in your notes is this, that God's people living in unity is a foretaste of the kingdom to come.

This is what he says in verse 3. It's like dew of Hermon falling on Mount Zion. For this is where the Lord bestows his blessing, even eternal life, life forever more. Unity becomes a picture of what heaven will look like. We see this in Revelation 7, where people from every tribe, language, nation, and tongue are all unified before the throne of Jesus, crying out, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Unity is a foretaste of the kingdom to come. Every tribe, every nation, every language, every tongue, all who have confessed faith and trust in Christ alone for salvation. I don't care what denomination they're a part of. I don't care what their political affiliations are. I mean, I care. We can have those conversations, but unity requires that we unite on the sake of the gospel.

And all these other conversations we can and we should have, but we should have them reminding ourselves daily that unity is more important. That agreeing on being united around the shed blood of Jesus is more important than all of the other conversations that are important to have.

So if you agree with the premise that unity in the midst of diversity is a foretaste of the kingdom to come, like a sweet-smelling aroma, like a refreshing drink of water, to this isolated, lonely, and divided world around us, then what can we do practically to cultivate this type of unity, this type of miraculous unity that only happens by the power of the Spirit working in each one of us?

I created a list. That's what pastors do. It's not an exhaustive list. There's plenty more things that the Spirit might be telling you to do right now. Listen to the Spirit over my list. But if the list helps you, first, intentionally seek out relationships and conversations with brothers and sisters in Christ who have different perspectives than you. Look for these conversations. Seek them out. Many of you did that over the last few weeks with some of us about this issue of alcohol. And I'm so grateful you did. I think I'm a, I think iron sharpened iron in those conversations. And I still might be wronger than you want me to be, but I'm a work in progress. Intentionally seek out relationships and conversations with brothers and sisters in Christ who have different perspectives than you.

I've got time. I've got time. So I'm going to give examples. Sometimes I put things in parentheses and I think there's no way I'm going to have time for this. So who cares how bold and audacious it is? And now I have time. So I have to do it. I grew up in a church, in a tribe of churches where women were not permitted to preach. And I grew up thinking that that was right because the Bible says so. And I grew up thinking that anybody who disagreed with that reality didn't care about the Bible because the Bible said so.

And so I didn't have any desire to have any conversation with any brother or sister in Christ who had a woman preach at their church because I thought the Bible says so. So you must not care about the Bible. So we must not be able to be unified. Then I grew up a little bit. Just a little, just a little bit.

And I looked for, I sought out conversations with people who disagreed with me because I saw that they were godly, that they loved the Lord, they loved the Scriptures. And I thought, maybe I'm missing something. And I had years and years of conversation with these people. And I think I might have changed their opinion about people who believed like me. And I know for a fact they changed my opinion about people who believed like them. And I know for a fact that I'd rather be united with them here and now as we wait for Jesus to come back and tell us which one of us is right. We need to get better at changing our mind about stuff. Second, acknowledge your own bias and lack of knowledge on the subject.

Just realize that you come to the table. We all come to the table with a bias. I now believe that women can preach. And when I have that conversation with people who disagree with me, I have to acknowledge that I have a bias. That there are passages of Scripture that make it seem like that should not happen. And when I look at those passages, I look at them with a bias. And there are other passages that make it pretty clear that they should. And when my friends who disagree with me look at those passages, they look at it with a bias. And if we both pretend like we don't have biases and we are the only ones who have a monopoly on the truth of Jesus Christ, no progress towards unity will ever be found.

And there are too many leaders of theological camps on both sides of that argument who lead their people to be arrogant and unaware of their biases.

And we just need to be reminded that the Savior that we worship is the same Savior who stooped down. Before he was about to be raised from the dead, demonstrating that he is God in the flesh, he stooped down and washed his disciples' dirty feet.

Let's acknowledge our biases and our lack of knowledge on the subject. Let's believe the best about the person you disagree with. To quote Ted Lasso. Be curious. Not judgmental. Right? Let's believe the best. Let's go into the conversation thinking maybe this person actually does love the Scripture. And maybe I have a biased opinion about them. Be curious. Not judgmental. And lastly, know the difference between an open-handed issue and a closed-handed issue. And be willing to be charitable and disagree about open-handed issues. We are united around closed-handed issues. We don't budge on those things. Christ Jesus, the Son of God. Sinless. Crucified. Risen and coming again. We do not budge on those things. If someone disagrees with that and they claim to be a follower of Jesus. We just treat them like they need to be introduced to Jesus.

But if they agree with that and then disagree with us about every other meaningful topic in the world, they are our brother and sister. And that means we're forced to sit around the table with them. So we need to learn how to do it in unity for the sake of the world around us. We're going to conclude our service today by taking communion, which I think is the perfect reminder of what is open-handed and what is closed-handed. Closed-handed issues are the ones that give us access to the communion table. This regular practice that Jesus gave all of his followers, male, female, slave, free, Jew, Gentile, Democrat, Republican, Israeli, Palestinian, Ukrainian, Russian, and all who claim the name of Jesus are invited to the communion table if they profess faith and trust in Jesus crucified, risen, and coming again.

This regular practice that Jesus gave us becomes like the three pilgrimages for the nation of Israel. As 12 tribes all gathered together at this one central location, as they had to look each other in the eye and realize that you're from Benjamin, I'm from Judah, right? Diverse groups of people with different opinions, and they all were forced to come together to remind themselves that what unites them is far more important than what divides them. And the communion table becomes that for us, brothers and sisters. Becomes this place where we meet together with people of diverse backgrounds, diverse opinions, diverse theological perspectives, and we take the body of Christ, and we partake in it, because that is the thing that unifies us, and that is the thing that is going to save the lonely, isolated world around us.

Not our politics, not our economics, not our whatever your thing might be. The thing that will save us is Christ Jesus crucified, buried, risen, ascended to the throne, and coming again. So I'm going to pray, and I'm going to dismiss you for communion. If you haven't been here when we do this table communion, it's chaos, organized chaos. It's part of the thing that unites us. So we'll put a map up on the screen. If you're new here, just follow the person in front of you and pretend like you know what you're doing, and you'll probably get communion. Communion at Canvas is that we participate in open communion, which means we don't stand at the table and tell you if you can or can't take it. But I do want to tell you up front right now that this is a thing that is only for people who have placed their faith and trust in Jesus alone for salvation.

And if you're here and you're just questioning, you're wrestling, you've got your doubts, that's okay. Please keep coming. But the Scriptures are clear that you're about to do a thing that acknowledges that a man lived on earth, and that man was God. And he died, and he rose again, and he's coming again. And so if you can't claim that, don't take this yet. Just keep wrestling, keep asking. And nobody's going to judge you for not coming down, okay? And if they do, tell me, and I'll have one of those hard conversations that I don't like to have. All right. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for this psalm that reminds us where our unity is found, that reminds us of the beauty, the hope, and the chaos that is unifying with a diverse group of people around the central truth of all creation,

that we have been separated from you, but that you are coming for us. God, I pray this morning that your Holy Spirit did exceedingly abundantly more than I could ask, think, or imagine, that you are restoring relationships, that you are prompting people to go and have conversations with one another over things that they've been stewing over for months or even years. God, may forgiveness happen. May restoration happen. May healing happen. And may this group of people under this roof be unified in such a way that is like a sweet-smelling aroma, like a fresh drink of water to the world around us. In Jesus' name I pray, amen.
