SOLITUDE: Encountering the Enemy
2025-02-24
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vni8KRIcVr4

Solitude is not a private therapeutic place. Rather, it is the place of conversion. It is the place where the old self dies and the new self is born. Solitude is the furnace of transformation. Without solitude, we remain victims of our society and continue to be entangled in the illusion of the false self. Solitude is the place of the great struggle and the great encounter. So wonderful to see all of you today. If we haven't met yet, my name is Ryan. I have the privilege of being one of the pastors here. I want to echo Andy's sentiment to those of you that are new or newer, whether you are maybe a spiritual seeker, skeptic, or maybe you left the church for a while and are coming back. We work really hard to be a safe place for people to explore faith, where real people

with real lives can learn how to follow Jesus in community with one another. We are by no means perfect, but that's kind of what we're all about here. And so if that's something that you're interested in, please find somebody in the lobby after. Find me. We'd love to talk to you and find out how you can get more connected here at our church. We have been in a series on solitude, as you can see. This is week three of four weeks. And the solitude series is in a larger series about what we call practice-based discipleship. And practice-based discipleship is really about offering our entire selves to God so that he can transform us into people of Christ-like love. Much of American Christianity often focuses on the mind and the heart. But if you read the teachings of Jesus, he is constantly engaging the whole person.

And he isn't just wanting us to agree intellectually with his teachings, his moral ideology, but he's actually inviting us to follow him, to do the things that he did, to become like the person that he was so that we can share the love of God with the world all around us. And we believe, I believe personally, that solitude is particularly important in our current moment of busyness and distraction. Our lives are filled with busyness and distraction. And it could be easy for us to go throughout the entire day without even thinking about the reality that there is a God who made us and loves us. And so solitude is this invitation to set aside time where we become aware of God's radical love for us. This series, actually, we intentionally planned it leading into the season of Lent,

which if you don't come from a church that practices the church calendar, that's fine. I didn't either. But Lent is a season where we're invited to intentionally go into the desert with God, to fast from certain things, to set aside certain comforts and pleasures in order to allow ourselves to experience God's presence in fresh ways. And just like solitude, Lent teaches us by taking things away from us. And so love for you to make plans to join us for that Ash Wednesday service. If that's something that you've never experienced before, we will try and make it as like the smallest amount of weird as possible. It will end with me putting ashes on your forehead and telling you that you are going to die one day. So that, it will be weird. But as normal as possible, we will try.

So just to recap where we've been in solitude, and then we'll hop into today's message. Week one, we define solitude as a space that we create for God free from all other inputs or agendas. Many of us have quiet time with the Lord, where we set aside time free from inputs, but we come to God with agendas. We come to God with what we want to learn, the questions we want to ask, the prayers we want him to answer in solitude. Although that is a good thing, solitude is this additional step where not only are we removing our inputs, but we're removing our agendas, and we're just giving him space to speak to us, allowing him to work in our lives. So that's what solitude is. And then Nick last week said that solitude is a place where we allow the dust to settle in our lives,

and we end up encountering ourselves as individuals on a deeper level. We understand the shame, the guilt, the regret, the fear, all of the emotions that are buried deep down inside of us, and we offer them to God so that he can transform us, so that he can heal the deepest, darkest wounds inside of ourselves. Solitude is a space that we create for God to allow ourselves to feel who we are in light of him. It's the Genesis, naked and unashamed. Nick said last week, which I love the line, how often do we come before God hiding with fig leaves? We are back in the Garden of Eden, and solitude is a place where we can remove the fig leaves, be naked before God, and allow him to remind us that we are loved no matter how much we've fallen short,

no matter how much we've run away from him, that we are loved by him. Today, we are going to talk about how solitude is a place where we, often encounter God's enemy. Exciting, right? Why would we do that? Why are we creating a space to encounter God's enemy? That doesn't seem very church-like. We have a green room meet, or we have a meeting with the band before service, so we put our hands in like a team. We always come up with a word to break on. And I was like, wow, we're talking about Satan today. I don't think we can say Satan on three. So, that's kind of the roadmap for where we're at. Hopefully, it'll make sense in a few minutes, but just track with me if that's okay. Sound good? All right, let's pray, and we'll do it.

Father in heaven, we are so grateful for yet another opportunity to be in this place with these people, with your spirit. We pray that you would just be at work the way in which you do through your spirit in the lives of each one of us in this room, God, that we would hear from you, that you would allow us to hear what we need to hear, to be drawn into your presence, to be drawn out of the busyness and distractions of our lives, and to hear from you, God, speak to us. I echo April's prayer. May not a single person in this room walk away not having heard from you. God, do what only you can do. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you have a Bible, if you carry a physical Bible with you,

which I would encourage all of you to do, I think that's a great idea. We're going to be in Matthew chapter 4. If you're new to the Bible, Matthew is the first book of the New Testament, so if you flip to the middle, turn right, about 100 or 200 pages, you should run into the New Testament, and Matthew should be easy to find from there. Matthew chapter 4 will be our main text. We'll get there in a little bit. In 1820, Thomas Jefferson created what is now known as the Jefferson Bible. By taking the Bible and literally, with a razor blade and a stick of glue, cutting and pasting numerous sections of the New Testament that he called his extractions of the doctrines of Jesus, which got me thinking, I wonder if I could take a book that I like,

cut some of it out, and republish it as my own work, and get some royalties, because I could use a little bit of extra cash. No, so this is what Thomas Jefferson did. This process included, literally, him removing all of the miracles of Jesus, most of the mentions of anything spiritual, including the resurrection. Now, I want to be careful here, because some of you in here, as skeptics or as people who are just spiritually seeking, you might resonate with Jefferson's approach. Many people like the teachings and moral examples of Jesus, but can't get down with him casting out demons or raising people from the dead. That's a fine starting point. It's okay to start there. If you're here and that's where you're at, I don't mean to insult you with this, but my guess is the majority of us in the room have likely come to know

that you cannot have the true Jesus without the supernatural. Some of us might laugh at the naivety of Thomas Jefferson's approach, and some of us might be appalled at the heretical nature of such an action. But what if many of us in this room are functionally doing the same thing as Thomas Jefferson, except instead of using a literal razor blade and a stick of glue, what if we have framed our theology in such a way that explains away the supernatural elements of the Scriptures? We wouldn't pull out a literal razor blade or a stick of glue, but we've created this theology that allows us to downplay some of the supernatural things in the Scriptures. I came across a blog this week from a seminary student who was struggling with this. He was at a highly intellectual seminary, constantly framing theology,

inspecting the word of God, and building these structures of theology, and he was frustrated with the fact that most of the theology he was learning ignored or explained away the supernatural. And he wrote this. I found it powerful. He said, Western Christians cannot help but be impacted by the culture around us. We have gone along with our culture's dismissal of the supernatural realm. Out of the fear that we will offend other people, lose a seat at the table of public discourse, or be written off as weird. We often read the Bible as if every passage dealing with demons, angels, or supernatural healings have been blotted out. Blinded in this manner, we try and follow Jesus, help others, and solve the world's problem with only one partial picture of reality. I don't know about you, but this has often been my experience.

I've often ignored or explained away things that are hard to digest in our current Western cultural moments, so that I don't lose a seat at the table, so that people don't think I'm nuts. Is it possible that not only our Western theology, but also our avoidance of solitude, allows us to ignore the very real presence of the spiritual enemies of God that seek to influence our lives? C.S. Lewis wrote a great piece that many of you are probably familiar with called The Screwtape Letters. This fascinating fiction was about how he saw Satan and demons working against God's presence and purpose in people's lives and in culture. It's beautiful. It's powerful. However, many of us don't consider this possibility much at all. And, equal opportunity offender in the room, some of us go way too far on the other side of the thing.

Anything that bad happens to us is Satan or the demon's fault. We stub our toe. We're like, devil's in here. All right, let's slow our roll a little bit, right? Let's have a balanced approach where we engage with and have space for the spiritual and supernatural, and yet don't make everything that happens to us totally that. As we dive into Matthew 4, I think we will see that solitude isn't just a space we create for God, but it is a space where we can become aware of the enemy's relentless pursuit to distract you from God's calling on your life and to deceive you into living for lesser things. So, if you want to keep pretending that spiritual realities don't exist or that everything bad is demonic, then avoid solitude. But if you want to receive clarity about how the enemy is at work to distract and deceive you

away from the abundant life that Jesus offers you and towards destruction and chaos, then I'd encourage you to lean into this practice of solitude. If you have a bulletin and you're a type A person, you want to follow along with the notes, there are some notes on the back, and this is my main thesis. My main point for the rest of our time together is that solitude is a training ground for battle against distraction and deception of the enemy. Solitude is a space that we create where we can become aware of how the enemy of God is seeking to distract us and deceive us away from God's purposes and plans for our lives and towards lesser things. So, let's read Matthew chapter 4. We'll work through it verse by verse and unpack the rest of that definition with the rest of our time together.

Matthew chapter 4, verse 1. This is right after Jesus was baptized, heading into the launch of his public ministry. It says, then Jesus was led by the Spirit, the Spirit of God, led Jesus into the wilderness. Remember, that's the word that we've been focusing on in this solitude series. It's desert. It's Oremus. It's this solitary place where you can be totally alone from the distractions of this world. Jesus was led by the Spirit into the Oremus to be tempted by the devil.

Is that weird to anybody but me? Why on earth would the Spirit of God lead Jesus to a place where he was totally isolated and alone to be tempted by the very enemy of God? Well, in order to unpack what's going on here, I think I have to give you the fastest and least nuanced overview of Satan and the demons of all time. We've got to have some working theory for who Satan is and what's going on here. So are we good for me to do that, knowing that I'm not giving you everything and I might fall short? Let's listen fast, all right? We read at the very beginning of the Bible, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. We've talked about this in length not too long ago, that heaven is God's space.

Earth is human space. They were meant to overlap, but at the fall, at sin, that there's been this separation between God's space and human space. There's still overlap. There's still, this is what we're talking about in the spiritual realm, right? The spiritual realm is where heaven and earth overlap. And the rest of the Genesis account is about how God created within the earthly realm. That he created humans and animals and plants, and it gives us an explanation of all that he did in and with humanity. However, the rest of the Bible gives us glimpses and clues that God didn't just create on earth, but he also created in heaven. He didn't just create on our realm, but he also created in his realm. And similar to how God created Adam and Eve to partner with him, stewarding the creation of earth, our space, for his purposes,

God also created divine beings to partner with him in the spiritual realm, to steward the heavenly realm. God at his very core, and this is something we cannot miss, God at his very core is relational. He is constantly creating and partnering with his creation in order to accomplish his purposes. And that's why, as much as we might not like it, things often move so slow. God's kingdom coming to earth moves at the pace of which we partner with and submit our lives in. Just like Adam and Eve rebelled against God's good purposes on earth, they decide to take matters into their own hands. They decide to steward God's creation their way rather than his way, and that leads us into chaos and destruction. A number of divine beings made the similar decision in the heavens, in God's space.

These beings are referred to throughout the Bible as Satan and demons. These are heavenly beings that were created by God to steward the heavenly realm with him. And they, just like Adam and Eve rebelled against God on earth, they rebelled against God in heaven. They began to work against God's purposes in the heavenly realm. Their sole purpose became the destruction of God's good world. Since their rebellion, they have been working subtly behind the scenes to influence individuals and cultures away from God's purposes that lead to life and towards chaos and destruction. The only thing they exist to do is to see God's purposes on earth, Lord. Now, with all of that as our backdrop, why in the world would the Spirit of God lead Jesus into a solitude, what's the adjective there? A solitary, thank you, Megan, that's wonderful.

Bonus points, a solitary place where he could expressly be tempted by the enemy who is seeking to destroy him at the very beginning of his public ministry. There's two answers to that question. One is a very big picture theological answer, which we will start with, and that is Jesus began his ministry by succeeding where all other human beings have failed. Jesus, in the aremos, tempted by the devil, he becomes the new Adam who faces the same temptation that Adam and Eve faced in a garden full of luscious things. Jesus is in the desert and faces the same temptation, and yet he succeeds where Adam and Eve fail. This story of Jesus in the desert with Satan face to face, this is the beginning of Christ single-handedly dismantling the spiritual powers of darkness that will culminate in his sacrificial death and resurrection.

He begins his ministry by taking on Satan head-on to show what the rest of his ministry is going to look like. I am going to single-handedly push back the powers of darkness that are trying to lead God's creation to destruction and chaos, and I will have the final victory. I am preaching better than you all are responding.

Jesus faces God's enemy head-on in the desert to prove that the rest of his ministry is going to be him single-handedly dismantling the powers and principalities that lead us to live for our own selves, and he is going to culminate it with the sacrificial death on the cross, showing us that true power, that true abundant life, that the way we advance God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven is not by taking power and by manipulating it and using it to gain circles of influence, but it's actually by laying down our power for our neighbors and for those who are in need. This is what Jesus does. The story in the desert is his first of many decisive blows that he will execute against our spiritual enemies. The victory has been won. The enemy is retreating.

Ultimate surrender is coming. But that does not mean we get to do nothing, right? We don't just get to sit back and wait and say, Jesus won on the cross. He finished it all, and so we're just waiting for him to come back and do what he's going to do. No, he invites us to partner with him. He gives us a blueprint for how we should live and surrender in relationship with him. And I think, I will make the argument with the rest of our time, that him going into solitude is part of that blueprint, that he's inviting us to follow him into solitude so that we can become aware of the enemy's temptation in our own life, his deception, his distraction, and we can begin to push back against the power of the enemy in our life and take ground for the kingdom of God.

Jesus went into the solitude to fight back against the distraction and deception of the enemy. And if we choose to follow his example, it can become for us a training ground to battle against our spiritual enemy. All right, let's unpack training ground, right? Whenever I was taught this passage growing up, the emphasis was usually on how the enemy came to Jesus at his weakest point in life, right? Forty days in the wilderness, fasting and praying. Jesus was starving, exhausted, alone. This is, isn't this like the enemy, right? To come at Jesus at his weakest time. But I have now come to believe that this is somewhat of a misguided reading of the text. Yes, Jesus is physically tired.

He was starving, running on fumes, but he is at the height of his spiritual strength. He just spent 40 days in solitude fasting and praying. He had gotten rid of all distraction, all earthly temptation in order to abide in the Father's love. And I believe the enemy is actually approaching him when he is the most prepared to deal with temptations of the enemy. A couple of years ago, I decided to train for a half marathon. Any real marathoners in the room? Some of you, a couple of you, right? Like, I'm not that nuts. But I'm a little nuts, right? And so I was training for a half marathon. And you might make the argument that before I ever began training for a half marathon, that would be the time that I was most prepared to run a half marathon, right?

My legs are fresh. Like, there's no, my body, I haven't put my body through this difficult regimen of training. I haven't run all of these miles. I got fresh legs. I got food in my stomach. I'm energized. I'm ready. Like, let's just go, right? Why train when I'm good? I'm good right now. How do you all think that would work for me? Not great, right? Of course not. It's at the end of the training, when you've put in hundreds of miles over weeks at a time, that you are most prepared to run the race. And I think that's what's happening here with Jesus. He's spending time alone with God, apart from the distraction and the deception of the enemy. He's preparing for this time of ministry when he is going to have to push back against the powers

and principalities of the spiritual realm in order to be fully obedient to his calling as Messiah. And that's when the enemy comes to him. He's ready. He's prepared. And I think in this story, Jesus gives us an example that solitude can become for us a training ground, how we fight back against the distraction and the deception of the enemy in our life. Don't worry. I'm not going to invite you to go 40 days into the wilderness with no food. But I do think that as we learn to implement this practice into our life, as we increase time and regularity of spending alone time with God, free from all inputs and agendas, that we might begin to discern the areas in our life where the enemy is distracting us and deceiving us from the abundant life that Jesus is inviting us into.

And if you're new to this practice, which most likely almost all of us are, I want to remind us that just like me training for a marathon, I had to be half marathon. See what I did there? I tried to pull one on you guys and make it seem like I was more than I am. Nope. Half marathon. Just like that, when you start training for something you've never prepared for, you're going to have to be willing to suck it first. Right? Like, I had to be willing to like be gassed at the end of a mile and a half in order to get to a place where I was ready for 13.1. And the same is true with solitude. If you have been brave enough over the last two weeks to try this practice of solitude,

you've likely found that it is far harder than you might have thought. And you don't seem like you're gaining traction at all. I would just encourage you, keep going, keep pressing in. You'll have to be willing to suck it first. It's a training ground. It's something that we have to work at and build up towards. Not only is it a training ground, but it's a training ground to fight back against distraction. The enemy is sneaky. The Bible calls him the father of lies. He would prefer to take us down passively so that we don't even know that he's doing it. He'd prefer to distract us by the busyness of the noise of this world that we don't even realize we're being pulled down a current that is leading us away from God's presence and purpose on our life.

I'd say it this way in the notes. The devil doesn't have to deceive you if he can distract you. There's a group from church history that learned this lesson long, long ago and put down lots of writings that if you're a nerd and you want to get into, you can. This group is called the Desert Fathers and Mothers. They learned this lesson early. They formed around the third century as Christianity had moved from being a persecuted minority to the official religion of the Roman Empire. See, it's hard to be distracted when your life is on the line every day. When Christianity was a minority persecuted group, it was hard to lose focus on what you were living for when your life was at risk every single day. But when it became more popular, when it became the culturally cool thing to do,

which we still kind of have that a little bit in America today, right? It's easy for people to just become Christian, to just identify as Christian because that's what everybody else is doing. And that's what was happening when Christianity became the official religion of Rome is everybody was Christian, whether or not they were actually following Jesus, whether or not they actually had a relationship with the living God. And the Desert Fathers and Mothers saw this and were afraid of what it was doing to their souls and said, we've got to get out of this cultural current that is just Christianity is just in the air and we've got to get alone with God so that we can become aware of how we are being distracted by the enemy of God to live for lesser things.

And I think this is a lesson that many of us as American Christians can learn because Christianity is just the air that we breathe in many parts of America still to this day. It's the thing that we just identify with because our parents identified with it or because we grew up going to church every once in a while. Like, yeah, I'm a Christian. But it's this opportunity for us to withdraw and really consider, are we actually following Jesus? And where are there places in our lives where we're distracted from actually doing the thing God's inviting us into? So they retreated into the desert for intentional solitude and prayer to fight back against the enemy's distraction in their life. In the furnace of their own spiritual training ground, they began to write about what they called the unholy trinity,

the world, the flesh, and the devil. All three of these things constantly working against them to live for lesser things than the thing that God had invited them into. Will we learn from their example? Will we take this practice of Jesus seriously? I can almost guarantee that if we don't create space for God, free from all inputs and agendas, that we will in some ways be distracted by our own fleshly desires, by the cultural powers of this day, the world, and by the enemy of God who is subtle and sneaky and is just trying to get us to buy one lie at a time. Jesus refused to be distracted. He intentionally went into solitude where he could become clearly aware of the deception of the enemy. All right, so let's look at what he becomes aware of,

this temptation of the enemy, starting in verse 2. It says, After fasting 40 days and 40 nights, he was hungry. I love how honest the Bible is. Fully God, fully man. Jesus is like, yeah, I need some food. The tempter, the enemy, came to him and said, If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread. Jesus answered, It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him to the holy city and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. If you are the Son of God, he said, Throw yourself down. Now Satan is quoting Scripture to Jesus, which is fun. So if somebody quotes Scripture to you and you're like, Ah, it doesn't sound right.

It's okay. Like, let's examine the claim here. Because Satan says to Jesus, He will command his angels concerning you. They will lift you up in their hands so that you will not strike a foot against the stone. Jesus answered him, It is also written, Do not put the Lord your God to the test. Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of this world and their splendor. He said, All of this I will give to you if you bow down and worship me. Jesus said to him, Away from me, Satan, for it is written, Worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Then the devil left him. I would emphasize and say, Retreat it. And the angels came and attended to him. Jesus has this decisive victory won against the enemy.

Fights back against three different deceptions from the enemy. And although these three temptations are specific to Jesus and his ministry as the Messiah, I think they represent three larger categories of lies that the enemy is still using in our life today. Again, if you're a type A note person, follow along. We've got them there on the notes. This first category of temptation that I think the enemy is using on Jesus that he's still using on us today is this. We can satisfy our desires apart from God. Verses three and four. The tempter came to him. He said, If you're the Son of God, take these stones and become bread. Jesus answered, It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. The enemy is trying to elevate Jesus' physical appetite

above all other things in his life. This is the only thing that matters to you. You have this appetite. You have this need. You've been 40 days without food. You are the Son of God. You can take this rock and you can make it food. Even though the spirit is the one that led you out into the wilderness to fast and pray, you can break the fast. You can use your spiritual powers to give yourself the thing that you need most. The enemy is trying to get Jesus to elevate his physical appetite above his God-ordained purpose. And Jesus' response is that there is so much more to life than our physical appetites. And the enemy still uses this subtle lie in our lives today. God created us with physical appetites. Surely they're meant to be satisfied. The enemy wants us to take a good gift from God and make it ultimate.

Think about it. In your life and in mine, our physical appetites often lead us to my physical appetites. I'll take you guys off the table. My physical appetites often lead me into gluttony. All right, now I'm going to put it back on us because I'm like, yeah, whoa, whoa, that's not me. All right. Our physical appetites can often lead us to gluttony, drunkenness, addiction, and laziness. We turn to food and substance in times of distress rather than into the loving arms of our Father. The enemy takes a good gift from God and uses it to deceive us. Our physical appetites matter. These things are gifts from God. Food is a gift from God. Drink is a gift from God. These things are good and right, but when we make them ultimate, we end up running away from God's presence and purpose in our life.

Our sexual appetites lead us to lust, pornography, and infidelity. The enemy takes a good gift from God and uses it to deceive us. Our appetite for provision and for safety leads us to discontentment, greed, gambling, workaholism, whatever it is for you. We have to have more. We have to have more. It leads us to seek to find life and identity and provision. The enemy takes a good gift from God and uses it to deceive us. Our appetite for approval, our appetite to be loved. We were created to be in relationship with a loving God. We have this appetite for approval, but if we're not getting approval from God, it leads us to lie, to manipulate, and to gossip, to become religious, to put on a front, to get whatever we can, to get false satisfaction out of other people, for them liking some version of ourself that we've created that isn't real.

The enemy takes a good gift from God and uses it to deceive us. These desires are meant to be fulfilled in relationship with God and in surrender. This is what Jesus talks about, the abundant life, right? When we fulfill our desires in relationship with God, surrender to what he says is right, the lines that he draws as too much, it leads to abundant life. But when we ignore his leadership in our life and we just take these appetites and run to fulfill them, it will ultimately lead us to death and destruction. Now, I know what some of you might be thinking. I always try and think about what you might be thinking when I'm writing my sermon. Hopefully, it is what you're thinking. If not, it's what an imaginary person in my head might be thinking.

This is all well and good, Ryan, but what does it have to do with solitude, right? Like, solitude seems like this extra thing you just keep talking about you wanting us to do. How is this connected to the enemy's temptation in our life? Well, solitude, I believe, is a place where we can give God space to reveal these subtle lies of the enemy that we are unknowingly believing. I don't know about you, but I often come across people who have totally wrecked their lives by patterns of decisions that they've made. Oftentimes, they make most of these decisions in the dark until they can no longer conceal it, and then it comes to the light. And it's easy for me to look at these people and say, how did you get there? How did you allow the enemy to drape these chains of oppression over you that led you to destroy everything that you've worked built?

As I was thinking about that, I came across a sermon this week where the pastor said, you know, I thought about that a lot. And the problem is the enemy doesn't come to us with a massive chain of bondage and slavery and oppression all at one time. He comes to us one link at a time, one little lie at a time in the darkness when no one's around, and it wouldn't affect anybody if I just said yes this one time. And before we know it, we fill our pockets, we fill our bags with one chain link at a time, and before we know it, we are buried under the weight of our decisions. I love how Ian Simpkins puts it. He says, the choices we make today become the chains we wear tomorrow. And if we don't have a regular practice where we can get alone with God and just be honest

and allow him to search our hearts and to reveal to us lies that we have been believing one chain at a time, before we know it, we will be overwhelmed by our own choices. It will lead us to death and destruction rather than abundant life. That's why this matters. This is why solitude connects to these things because solitude gives us a place where God can remove the distractions and the busyness of this world and help us pinpoint lies that we're believing that are ultimately leading us away from God's purpose and presence in our life. And it's way easier to readjust to course correct if we only have a handful of chains that we have collected over time. And God can say, hey, let's get rid of those. Let's repent and believe that I am who I say I am

and that if you surrender to me, your life will be led to the place you want it to go. Second temptation. We can define good and evil apart from God. Verse five. The devil took Jesus to the holy city and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. If you are the Son of God, he said, throw yourself down for it is written. Remember Satan's quote in Scripture to Jesus. Love this. He will command his angels concerning you and they will lift you up in their hands so that you will not strike your foot against the stone. Jesus answered him. It is also written. Do not put the Lord your God to the test. The enemy takes a passage of Scripture that was written about the coming Messiah, that the Lord would not let him suffer,

that the Lord would not let him fall. And he says, look, you're at the beginning of your ministry. You're at the start where you're supposed to get popular. People are supposed to know that you are the Son of God. You're the Messiah. Let's skip all the suffering. Let's skip all the daily faithfulness. Let's skip all of the hard part. And why don't you just jump off of this temple and some angels will come down and catch you and the entire city of Jerusalem will see that you are this promised Messiah. Let's skip the hard part and let's get to the part that you really want. See how this lie is saying like, no, like, yes, this is a truth from God and I'm going to twist it to benefit myself. Sound like anything we do today in our culture?

The enemy wants us to take God's word and twist it to fit our own agendas. How often do we pick and choose verses in the Bible that fit our convenient narrative about who God is and about how we should live? How often do we twist God's word and manipulate it to recreate a God in our own image and likeness, essentially defining for ourselves what good and evil is and justifying it with Bible verses? We use the Scriptures. If we're not careful, the enemy can even take the Scriptures themselves and help us to dig our heels in and justify behavior that is not Christ-like love and we justify it with the Scriptures because not because God is teaching us his word this way, but because the enemy is actually using God's word to allow us to redefine good and evil in our own image.

And if we don't get alone with God in solitude and invite him to show us where we are believing the lies of the enemies, we're not careful we'll end up creating a God that is in our own image. And solitude is a place where God can reveal to us the truth about himself and this is something that I have been working on for the last few years. You grow up in the church, you go to Bible college, you get all of these ideas about God in your head, you got all of these influences of people in your head that teach you what God is like, and then you go into ministry and you start reading the Bible for yourself. You start coming in contact with people's lives that don't fit your clean boxes of systematic theology.

You're like, how do I make this work with this? And I think we just need to give God space in our lives to correct us, to challenge us, to keep us from taking his word and manipulating it to fit our own agenda. And it happens on all different sides of the spectrum for all different reasons and all different purposes. I'm not going to get into the specifics. You guys can probably think about it in your own head. But this is a lie that the enemy is still using today to deceive us. He wants us to redefine God in our own image, to redefine good and evil apart from God. Solitude is a place where we can be made aware of these areas in our life. Lastly, the last temptation of the enemy, I would put it this way,

that we can have the life we were created for apart from God. Again, the devil took him to the very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendor. All of this I will give to you, he said. If you will bow down and worship me. Jesus said to him, Away from me, Satan, for it is written, Worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Satan comes right at the heart of Jesus' very purpose for being on earth. Jesus came to have victory over the powers and principalities of the earth, to sit down at the right hand of the Father, having all of the kingdoms of this world under his leadership, under his footstool. Hebrews 1, 2 and 3 puts it this way. God promised everything to the Son as an inheritance.

All the kingdoms of this world are Jesus' inheritance. And through the Son, he created the universe. The Son radiates God's own glory and expresses the very character of God, and he sustains everything by his mighty power. When he had cleansed us from our sins, he sat down in the place of honor at the right hand of the majestic God in heaven. This was the purpose for which Jesus was the Messiah, that he came to fight back against the powers and principalities of this world, so that he could have victory over the consequences of sin and death, so that he could ultimately sit down in his rightful place as the king of the universe. And Satan is saying, you can have all of that or at least a watered-down version of that without going through the suffering,

without going to the cross. I'll give you the thing that you were made for. I will give you the thing that you're here for. You can have it all. All you have to do is reject God. No suffering, no crucifixion. But Satan can only make this offer temporarily. Satan has power over the world today, but not forever. And so he was offering Jesus something temporary that mimicked the life that he was created for, but fell woefully short of the life that he was here for. The same lie is used by Satan for us today. You can have all God's gifts without submitting to his rule or his reign in your life. You can take all of the gifts that God has offered you. You can enjoy life. You can be the person God created you to be apart from God's presence in your life.

And it'll work for a while. But it's temporary. And it ultimately leads to destruction. I don't know about you, but this message has been hitting me really hard all week. I'm often busy and overly distracted. I'm often lulled to sleep and spiritual irrelevancy through the distress. Far more often than I'd like to admit, the guy with a Bible college degree still believes the subtle lies and deception that the enemy is selling me. And my guess is I'm not alone. And my guess is I'm not alone. So what if solitude became for us a training ground to battle against the distraction and deception of the enemy? What if we followed the example of Jesus confronted our enemy head on by the power of the Spirit in solitude? What if we allowed the Spirit to lead us into the eremos, the solitary place?

To reveal to us the truth about ourselves, the lies that we're believing, the ways in which we're distracted, the ways in which we're living life for so much less than what God created us for. So I'd encourage you this week to try and carve out three periods of solitude sometime this week. I think all of us have three 10-minute blocks throughout the week that we can carve out to get alone with God apart from all inputs and agendas. And I just invite you to just come to this place with these three questions, one question at a time. First, where in my life am I elevating temporary pleasures above my eternal purpose? Where in my life is the enemy convincing me to sell myself short for who God made me to be in order to find satisfaction from the pleasures of this earth?

Second, where in my life am I twisting God's definition of good to fit my own agenda? Where in my life am I doing the thing that I want to do and justifying it by twisting God to look like me rather than allowing the Holy Spirit to convict and to change me into His image? And where, thirdly, where in my life am I content to have God's gifts apart from His presence and His leadership?

Or in my life am I good to just enjoy life apart from the one who made me and has invited me into His presence? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for Jesus who conquered the enemy head-on, who systematically pushed back the powers of darkness and principalities and the spiritual beings in the heavenly realm seeking to destroy us, who struck the final blow leading to ultimate victory. God, may we lean into Your presence and walk in that very same victory. May solitude become a place for us where we become aware of the distraction and the deception that the enemy wants to use against us to lead us to a life that ultimately leads to chaos rather than the abundant life that Jesus invites us to. May we become partners with Jesus in His kingdom as we surrender to the truth.

As we fight back against the currents of our culture that say you just have to do more, achieve more, accomplish more, and that we carve out space just to be used by You to love our neighbors as ourselves.

Father, I pray that each person in this room this week would have an encounter with Your Spirit. And God, that You would do a work to conform them into Your image for Your glory. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Go in peace, church. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
