Practicing the Way: COMMUNITY
2025-09-08
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VIt84NQnf5k

Amen.

Well, good morning, everyone. It's going to take probably just a few minutes for us to rein in the, uh, whatever that is happening in my ear. But we'll figure it out. Don't think I didn't notice that those of you with, uh, teams whose jerseys with teams who aren't that good. You guys were more pumped. You were like, yeah, of course we should yell for Jesus more than our football team. I saw it. I saw it. I'm just kidding. For those of you who haven't met me yet or I haven't got to meet you yet, I'm looking forward to that day. My name is Ryan. I'm one of the pastors here. And just an honor, seriously, an honor and a privilege to be a part of this community. That we call Canvas Community Church. God has been so good to us.

And you all are wonderful people. Chasing after Jesus with, with all of yourselves. And so excited to be here launching a new series. Uh, it's going to be a longer series, community and service. It's a part of our three-year, nine-part series on practice-based discipleship. So if you're newer, you might not have caught any of our practice-based discipleship curriculum. It's through an organization called Practicing the Way. And really, it's built on nine practices that we can pull out from the life and teachings of Jesus. And the theory is, and I don't think it's a theory. I think it's just true, is that discipleship in the Western church, discipleship in America, often centers around information and knowledge before obedience. And we often like to talk about people who are mature in the faith because they know a lot of Bible.

But the whole idea about these, this practice-based discipleship is that maturity in discipleship to Jesus is obedience to Jesus. And yes, we should increase our understanding, our knowledge about the Scriptures that Jesus called his Bible, the Old Testament, the Jewish Bible. And yes, we should do our best to understand the New Testament teachings in their context. But if we spend so much time and energy, if all of our Bible studies, all of our meetings, all of our gatherings about filling our head with information that we do nothing about, then the Scripture rebukes us as those who are hearers of the word but not doers. And so we really, as a church, we want to hone in on this idea of we're going to talk about the Scriptures and then we're going to live them out.

And if we get so focused on just more information, more knowledge, but we don't have love, we've missed the point. And there's nothing more heartbreaking for me as a pastor than having somebody set a meeting with me to have a conversation about the nuances of very, very niche theology and what I believe. And then, like, you look and it's like, that's all they care about is the nuances of theology and not loving their neighbor as their self. And it's a trap that all of us can fall into. It's a trap that I fall into on a regular basis. So I'm not here to condemn as much as I am to just like, let's keep this before us on a regular basis. So far, the practices that we've covered are prayer, fasting, generosity, and solitude. And if you didn't get any of those and you want those, they're all on our website.

You can check those out. As we head into the next series, we're going to do community and service together. These are best done in small groups. Those don't have to be small groups that are sponsored by our church. We do as many small groups as we can to create space for all of you. But if you just want to find a neighbor, find a friend, find another follower of Jesus, and you want to get together with them and talk about these things and live them out together, that's wonderful. There are a couple of new small groups that are launching. New small groups are always great for those of you that haven't been in one because you don't feel like you're hopping into a group of people that already know each other really well. So like Corey said, there are going to be two, at least two this week and then more next week of new groups.

I think there might even be three. Lisa, are you planning on heading back there as well? I didn't talk to you beforehand. But yeah, so there's new groups. These are awesome opportunities to get plugged into. And my ultimate desire is that all of our small groups who are meeting together to cultivate community will work together at the end of this to plan a service project. Do something together. Your community that you're forming, do some type of service. And if all of that goes well, the last Sunday of this series, I'd like to just be a testimony Sunday. A Sunday where our groups come up and share what God has been doing through them getting outside of themselves to serve their neighbors and those who are in need. So that's kind of the overarching goal. Technically, an eight-week series that I turned into a 10-week series because why not, right?

So this Sunday, we're kind of going to set the stage for how community and service are together. And then we're going to take a break on the 28th for our Celebration Sunday. It's cool because the week before our Celebration Sunday, the theme is to share your joys and sorrows together in your community. So we're going to pause and take a Sunday to really share the joy of what God has done in our church that has merged two churches together and started a brand new thing three years ago. We're going to celebrate that. We're going to honor one another. More details about that are coming. I just want to warn you, it's going to be chaotic and beautiful. So one of the things we're going to do is we want to highlight, we want to honor our volunteers who partner with God to make this stuff happen.

And so what's on the chopping block, what's on the plans in dark pencil is no children's ministry for a Sunday. It's going to be awesome. We did the math on the chairs. I know it looks full in here. My phrase that I'm telling you is embrace the chaos. It's going to be beautiful. We're going to open up the double doors. We're going to have chairs out in the lobby. We're going to set up strategic spaces for if you have a fussy kid that you're insecure about, you want to take them to play, that's totally fine. But just know we're not going to be bothered by kids being kids because we're family, we're community. So that's the plan for now. I think we've got a donut truck. I think we've got the playground at the kids club.

Lots of cool things that are going to happen that Sunday. So if you can make it, we'd love for you to be there. If you have crippling anxiety in crowds, you probably don't come here already. But if you do, you might want to just kind of plan ahead and think of all of the exits that you can get out if it gets overwhelming. But we love you guys. We love all of you. So, all right, let's pray and we'll hop in. Oh, Father in heaven, Abba, you have brought us into a family through the death, burial, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus. And that is not a family that we should think about, a group that we just get together with once every two and a half weeks on a Sunday morning for an hour. God, this is family.

We are brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers, aunts and uncles, children, all under you as our Abba. God, we want to live into that vision more clearly. We want to be family around the table with one another. And we don't want that just to be for our good, but we want that to be for the good of the community around us who is searching, looking, grasping for anything they can to fill the void in their life, which is being loved by an eternally loving father. We want to go out with that love and serve our community and share the good news of Jesus with them. And so, God, may that be our posture for the next 10 weeks. May we prepare our hearts and our minds and our schedules to invest in one another so that we can go out and serve those who are in need in our community.

It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you have a Bible and you want to follow along with me, we're going to be in Titus chapter 2. I know all of you spend a lot of time in the book of Titus, so you should know exactly where we're headed. Last week, we finished up our psalm series, and we wrapped it up with a message on Christian unity. And I said, and you all, yes and amen to the fact that we live in a current cultural moment where people are busy, isolated, disconnected, and divided. Can we yes and amen that again? This is the air that we breathe, is this unhealthy culture where most of us are so busy, and that leads us to be isolated and disconnected. And that disconnection leads us to become divided from our brothers and sisters in unhealthy ways.

We said that God is inviting his people to live into a unified Christian community that can be a countercultural witness to the world around us. Do we remember this? Thank you. Thank you. I know sometimes I ask questions, and you're like, does he actually want me to answer that or not? So I gave you time, and you did it. I appreciate that. So my question then becomes for us, this is an inspirational message that most of us would agree with intellectually. But if discipleship to Jesus is more than just agreeing with biblical truth, is there a practice or practices from the life of Jesus that we can intentionally build into our lives that will help us cultivate this countercultural unity that demonstrates God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven?

Yes. Yes. Thank you, Gary. Community and service are on tap for the next 10 weeks. I'm glad you asked. I'm glad you shared. It's community and service, and they are our primary countercultural practices. Taking practical steps to intentionally live life with one another in community, and this is not easy. You don't fall into community. You have to be proactive. You have to reorient your calendar. You have to be intentional with the people that Christ has called you into family with.

And then serving God together in those communities. We don't form these communities solely for our own benefit. We remain united. And here's the other thing, too. By serving alongside one another, we said that community is for all of our brothers and sisters in Christ. And do we naturally get along with all of our brothers and sisters in Christ? Wasn't that what last week was all about, right? Like, unity is hard. Unity is difficult. But what I find is that when brothers and sisters who are in community together go out and serve those who are less fortunate, serve those who are in need, serve those who are searching for hope and healing and a future, the things that we fight over become less and less important. It's like if we're serving a marginalized group of people outside of ourselves, the things that we fight over and get in internal battles about become less and less important.

And that increases unity. This is why we've tied these two things together, because we can all get around a table and have weekly conversations and get in fights about secondary theology. Or we could all come around a table centered on the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus, and then we can take that hope out to the watching world. And maybe we won't have time to fight about little nuanced, difficult conversations, right? So that's the point. Community and service together, living as family and serving outside of ourselves. And the passage that we're going to look at in Titus, I think, really encapsulates this whole message. It's a perfect passage for us to launch these practices. Because Paul is writing this letter to Titus, a church leader that he left on the island of Crete, to help them cultivate Christian community that lives as a countercultural witness to the ungodly culture around them.

And Crete was ungodly. One of their own secular prophets wrote this. Paul quotes it in the letter that Cretans are always liars, evil brutes, and lazy gluttons. Fun, right? And the reason Paul sent Titus to Crete is because the church in Crete was not living into this vision of being a countercultural community that served others outside of themselves. They were becoming—they had two main struggles that you can find as you read along the book. Some of the Cretan believers were living lives that looked no different than the culture around them. They were Cretan with Jesus slapped on the bumper sticker of their whatever they had, right? And then there was another group of people that were taking hold of leadership in the church, and they were very religious believers that were far more concerned with external obedience than they were with transformation from the inside.

Now, strict religious obedience that made the gospel inaccessible to the culture around them. And Paul equally rebuked both. See, here's the thing. I think church people think that one of those things is worse than the other. I think people that were raised in the church think that, like, nominal Christianity with no obedience and just being conformed to the culture around them is worse than religiosity inside the church. And, like, when I read the Scriptures, I think they both get rebuked the same. And so if you're a church person and you're like, yeah, at least I don't look like the culture around me. It's like, yeah, but are you being religious and making the gospel inaccessible to the people outside the walls of the church? Sound anything like us today? Apathetic towards sin and lazy in our obedience as we blend with the culture around us or self-righteously obedient to external standards while hardening our hearts to the community around us, unwilling to serve hurting people unless they play by our rules.

So Paul's charge to Titus is to develop a tight-knit community, family around the table of faithful believers who take sin seriously and take obedience to the gospel seriously and who are willing to lay down their external religiosity to serve those among them in need. The passage that we're going to look at today is Paul's summary statement about this project that he sent Titus on. Essentially what he's saying in this summary paragraph is, Titus, if you're going to succeed in this thing, cultivating a community of believers who take obedience to Jesus seriously and then go outside and serve from themselves, these are the things that you're going to have to do. This is the mindset that you're going to have to have. Let's read it. Titus chapter 2, verses 11 through 15. For the grace of God has appeared that offers salvation to people that look like me, people that vote like me, people in my economic status.

For the grace of God has appeared that offers salvation to all people. It teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in this present age while we wait for the blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all wickedness and to purify. Listen, this is the summary statement. This is what Paul is saying, that Jesus died to purify for himself a people, a community that are his very own possession, his family, flesh and blood, and they are eager to do what is good. These then are the things you should teach, encourage and rebuke with all authority and do not let anyone despise you.

We see that summary in Paul's language, that the whole point, this whole thing, the gospel is all about Jesus redeeming for himself a community of believers who are eager to go outside of themselves and serve those who are struggling, those who are hurting. As I worked on this message today, I gotta be honest with you, I'm not necessarily proud of it, but my old Baptist roots came out a little bit. I couldn't help it, I've broken down this passage with three truths, all starting with the letter A. And if you're lucky, we might even end with a poem, who knows? So, three truths that we need to embrace in order to pursue the practices of community and service. Paul is telling Titus that this project of community and service is going to work. These are the truths that have to get inside of the believers that you are pastoring.

They have to embody these, they have to embrace these, they have to believe these, not just in their minds, but in their very souls. The first is this idea of adoption, adoption. Verse 11, for the grace of God has appeared that offers salvation to all people. Paul starts the summary of his argument by saying, The project to unite obedient followers of Jesus into community with one another who are willing to sacrificially serve outside of themselves only works if it's rooted in the grace of God. It only works if these people understand what God has done for them in Jesus. So what is this grace that has appeared? What is the ultimate grace of God that has appeared to the community of believers? It is the person of Jesus Christ. God in the flesh has appeared to his image bearers.

He has modeled for us how to live a life in harmony with the purposes of God. Even in a world marred by sin, Jesus, God in the flesh, stepped into human creation, marred by sin. Temptation everywhere. Difficult situations to navigate, grace and truth everywhere. Surrounded by sinners and Jesus modeled for us what it looks like to live grace and truth. He is our example, but he is not only our example. He died a sacrificial death, raised from the dead, ascended into heaven, making a way for people to be brought back into the family of God. At the heart of the grace of Jesus is the concept of adoption. We've been brought into a new family through the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. At the very heart of the grace of God is this concept of adoption.

Every single one of us, every image bearer on earth was created to be in an eternally loving relationship with the creator of the universe as their Abba, their Papa. And each and every one of us has chosen to break that relationship. We are all fatherless prodigals who have taken hold of God's creation. We have broken our relationship with him and we are using his stuff for our own personal gain.

This is the reality of all of creation before Jesus. We are fatherless prodigals who have taken God's creation and are running away from him and using his stuff to accomplish our own purposes. And whether you realize it or not and whether you're ready to acknowledge it or not, this causes damage to you and to those around you. This is the sin and the effects of sin all around us. This is why Jesus takes sin so seriously. It's not because he just wants to slap us over the wrist with a bunch of rules. It's because when we sin, it hurts us and it hurts others.

We're all essentially self-proclaimed eternal orphans grasping for anything to fill the void we have from our willful separation from our eternally loving father. And the grace of God that Paul is talking about here is the person of Christ making a way for us to be adopted into the family of God again.

Paul is telling Titus that if he's ever going to be able to wrangle this ragtag group of disobedient and self-righteous people who claim to follow Jesus together in a unified community that serves outside themselves, they have to understand the grace of God that's been given to them. The self-righteous have to understand that they cannot earn their way back to God. They have to understand that it is a gift freely given to them. And those who claim the blood of Jesus over their lives but aren't living differently than the world around them have to realize that they are no longer orphans out on the streets, but they have been adopted into the family of God. And that comes with a new identity and a new purpose. We've got to live into this family. Not just with the ones that we like, but with all people who claim Jesus as Lord.

Genuine Christian community begins with a deep understanding and an internalization of our adoption. If we're really going to take Christian community seriously, we have to realize the work of Christ was to bring all people who trust Jesus into family with one another. If you don't believe me, here's the words of Jesus in Matthew 12, verse 50. When his actual family were looking for him, people come to him and say, hey, your mom and your brothers are all looking for you. And he says, who are my mother and my brothers? My sisters, my father. For whoever does the will of my father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. Jesus is saying adoption is at the heart of the kingdom of God. God, all of us become family when we obey the will of the father, when we realize that we are orphans on the run, and when we turn from that, repent and move towards God. When we accept the grace and forgiveness that he has given us, we become family with one another, and that is messy.

But man, is it beautiful. The grace of God invites us to be adopted into a new family with all those who trust and obey Jesus as Lord. We good with the first A? All right, we're moving on. Adoption, from adoption to alignment. And this one, I got to be honest with you, a bit of a stretch. But it started with an A. So we're here. I'll explain it. It'll make sense when we're done. But I was feeling Baptist this week. I don't know what to tell you. Alignment. Adoption leads to alignment. Verse 12, it teaches us the grace of God. Listen to this. Don't miss the connection that he's making here. What teaches us? The grace of God, this idea that we've been brought into a new family, that teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly passions,

and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in this present age. It's the grace of God revealed to us in Christ that leads us to obedience. It's our adoption as heirs of the king of the universe that brings us into alignment or to obedience. It's the thing that motivates us to say no to sin and say yes to sacrificial serving. It's the thing that motivates us to live into this hard vision of community with brothers and sisters that all come from different places but all surrender to Jesus. It's hard. But we do it because we've been adopted into a new family. I'm really tempted to quote Lilo and Stitch, but it's been a while since I've seen it, and I don't want to butcher it. Yeah, it means family, right? We're brought into God's family.

Whether or not we like the person that God decided to bring into our family or not, they're family. Brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers. So we've got to understand this. It's God's adoption of us as daughters and sons that teaches us obedience. And Paul says here it's a two-fold obedience. It's both saying no to sinful things that distract and harm us, and it's saying yes to hard things like community and sacrificial service that ultimately lead us to the life and flourishing that Jesus has invited us into. And I think this is where we can, both parties can miss it. I think it's really easy for religious people to say no to sin, easier, or at least the appearance of saying no to sin.

But not saying yes to hard obedience. And it's easier for people who are just living in the world, not worried about sin. I'll do whatever I want to sacrificially serve those around them. But it's both of these things that need to happen in order for true obedience to happen. You can't do one or the other and say you're being obedient to Jesus. Obedience to Jesus requires both. And again, I use the word alignment because it started with an A. But what I'm really getting at here is identity-based obedience. That our identity as an adopted daughter or Son of God is the thing that changes our mindset, changes the way that we think about the world around us, and allows us to begin to obey hard things. Say no to sin and say yes to sacrificial obedience.

We don't say no to sin and yes to God out of fear of judgment. Abba in heaven loves you. You don't need to prove to him anything. You don't obey out of a fear of being judged by God. You obey because he loves you. And you don't obey to try and earn some kind of extra favor with God, looking to your left and to your right, saying, God, you see me versus them? Don't you love me more than you love them? No. We don't do it to earn favor with God. We don't do it to avoid judgment from God. We do it because of who we are. We're no longer orphans on the run. We don't need to earn love from other things outside the world. We've been given it freely by the God who created us and who has all the love in the world to give.

We no longer need to use his stuff to meet our fleshly desires. We are adopted children, heirs of the kingdom, and our brother is Christ who has shown us how to align our lives to the will of the Father in this present age. He is our example. And we practice obedience because it's who we are. And we practice obedience because it's who we are. James Clear, New Testament. See, when you go to Bible college, your head does weird stuff. And I abbreviate it in New York. And anyway. When you go to Bible college, every time you type the word his, you capitalize it. It just happens. Every time I'm like, that's not about Jesus. Don't capitalize it. I'd be like, Corey and his truck. And now all of a sudden, Corey's divinity in my email.

All right. Sorry. James Clear, in his New York Times bestselling book, Atomic Habits. Anybody read it? A couple people. Very popular book for a long time. He makes the same argument from behavioral psychology. He talks about identity-based habits and how they're far more effective than outcome or process-based habits. The outcome-based habit says, I want to run a marathon, therefore, I need to run every day. It's like, I have this outcome in mind, and so I have to create these habits that lead me to this outcome. Process-based habits are, this is my training plan that I need to stick to in order to run a marathon. So I'm creating this plan, and I have to stick to it because it's the process that's going to be required of me to run a marathon. And then lastly, identity-based habits are, I'm a runner, so I run.

And this is what we're getting at with discipleship to Jesus. I am a child of God. And so I live into community with my brothers and sisters in Christ, even when it's hard, and even when it requires hard conversations about difficult things. I do it because they are my brother, and they are my sister, and they are my father, and they are my mother in the faith. It is our identity. And I sacrificially serve others because I know that those outside the family of God are desperately hurting their orphans on the run from a God who loves them. And they have been grasping at every bit of creation they can to fill the void of that love that they have not felt. And it's me and us that have that love to take to them, and not to take it to them in a judgmental way, but to take it to them in a sacrificial way.

It's identity-based obedience. And I'm trying this as a father, imperfectly as it might be. But in the Miller household, we are children of God. And so we align our lives with the values of the kingdom of God. One thing that we do on a regular daily basis with Rory is we pray the Lord's Prayer. We do it because this is the cry of the child of God. Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And then it goes on to talk about our participation in that. Lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. Right? And the other day, Rory, over at the dinner table, he mentioned to us that his friend pushed him at daycare, which parent win, right? My kid told me something that happened at daycare.

That's awesome. Praise the Lord. And so later that night, we're praying through the Lord's Prayer, and we get to that part, that statement, that we forgive those who sin against us. And I said, Rory, buddy, you forgive your friend that pushed you because God forgives you. It's identity. And he's two, and he has no clue what I'm saying. But we start now, right? We start now. It's identity. It's not you have to, or God's going to be mad at you, or you have to so God loves you more, or punch him back in the face next time because that's not right, right? All of us have probably done some version of all three of those parenting. But identity-based discipleship is we forgive because God has forgiven us. We serve because God has served us. We love because God has loved us.

And there's going to come a point in Rory's life where he's going to have to decide if he wants to embrace that identity or not. I can't do that for him. But for those of us in the room that have already embraced our identity as followers of Jesus, it's not an option. It's our identity. It's who we are. We have to come into alignment. And this is a lifelong process, right? Thank you. This is a lifelong process. Sometimes it's two steps forward and three steps back. But the reality is we have, sometimes I think we take three steps back because we lose sight of identity and we move towards earning God's favor or running from his judgment. And if we're going to keep moving forward in obedience to Jesus' example, I think identity, alignment, obedience is what we need.

And community, amen, whoever. Dave Ballinger's preaching better than me. Come on up. You want to? All right. Are we ready for our third A? We got adoption. We got alignment. And we have anticipation. Come on. Baptist preacher doing it this morning. Let's go. Baptist Bible grad 2014. You're welcome.

All right. So, yeah, thanks, Mom and Dad. The adoption, the grace of God teaches us to come into alignment, obedience to Jesus, saying no to sin, saying yes to sacrificial service. Verse 13, while we wait for the blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. We live in a world that is still marred by sin. We are still awaiting Christ's ultimate arrival and fulfillment of all of the grace that he has promised to us and sealed for us in his resurrection. Aligning our lives with God's vision for humanity is hard because we live in a broken and rebellious world. But saying no to sin and yes to obedience gets a little bit easier when we have our eyes set to the future hope of Christ's return and him making all things new.

Whether we realize it or not, all of creation is on a collision course for judgment or alignment with the will of the Father. And we've been invited to start this process early before Christ returns. We've been invited. That's what the Lord's Prayer is all about, that we as children of God are aligning ourselves with the will of God, with the kingdom of God, participating in his kingdom coming on earth as it is in heaven. Because one day, in the blink of an eye, whether we realize it or not, Christ will return and he will restore all things to himself. And so we get to participate in that early. Amen. We get to live into that in community. Now we get to go out to our brothers and sisters who have not said yes to that and invite them to do so.

When we read some of the most encouraging passages of Scripture, like the wolf will lie down with the lamb and swords will be beaten into plowshares and every tear will be wiped from their eyes. As these truths are only possible because all of sin is finally dealt with once and for all. We're anticipating the day that that comes. And so for now, while we wait, we say no to sin and yes to obedience because we know that's where we're headed. All those who hold on to their rebellion against God with hard hearts will be judged or redeemed. All creation will be brought back into alignment with God's will for all eternity. We wait for the blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Paul is saying because this is the hope we are anticipating, we should begin to live into this reality here and now.

And if you don't believe me, you don't believe that this would work, practically speaking, think with me for a second about your favorite dessert that you have ever had. What's your, like, go-to? Everybody close your eyes and just, you know, if saliva starts coming, it's fine. What's your favorite, favorite dessert? If you were at an all-you-can-eat buffet but you knew your favorite dessert was going to be brought out at any moment, would this potentially, depending on where you're at with your calorie counting, but would this potentially change the way you go about your buffet trips? It's when we're anticipating what's to come changes the way that we look at what's in front of us. It's when we know what is true about our creation when Jesus comes and we know that he's coming, that we come in alignment with those things here and now.

And for me, I've got to be honest with you. I experience this reality every time I go to a Chinese buffet. Because, no lie, one of my favorite desserts of all time, those dough rolls covered in sugar. You guys know what I'm talking about? Things are awesome.

And so, like, I don't overdo it at Chinese buffets with the regular course because I plan on overdoing it with the dough rolls. I'm anticipating the future that is to come. I am preparing now for what is to come. And, yes, that might be sinful. And I know we're about aligning our lives with the kingdom of God. Gluttony, not a thing we should do. This is probably a bad illustration now that it's coming out of my mouth. But what I'm saying is Jesus is going to return and he is going to restore all things to the way that they were intended to be. And everyone is either going to be received as a brother and sister and father and mother or judged for the rejection of God. And his patience and kindness is inviting people to do that now.

And we get to model that and align our lives to that now. And this would also likely motivate us to tell others who are at the buffet table that don't know dessert's coming, right? Standing beside a guy and his plate's piled this high and you're like, dude, there's some, something's coming. You don't want to be doing that when this thing comes out, right? If we anticipate the future hope, it should cause us to live in relationship with those who don't know the hope is coming in a new and fresh way. As adopted children of God, we are invited to bring our present identity in alignment with our future hope for God's glory, our good, and the good of our neighbors. Let's just read it again. For the grace of God has appeared that offers salvation to all people.

It teaches us to say no to ungodliness and worldly passions, to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in this present age while we wait for the blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Paul hits us with a concise summary statement of his whole argument, which isn't always his style. He's king of run-on sentences. And so when you get my wordy emails, just know I'm trying to follow Paul as he follows Christ. But he summarizes it so well in verse 14. Who gave himself for us to redeem us from all wickedness and to purify for himself a people, a community, a family that are his children, his very own, eager to do what is good. I'd summarize this whole sermon with this one point. Jesus welcomed us into his family so we might be sent out to our neighbors.

This is what this passage is all about. This is community and service together that the grace of God has brought us into a family of God. Jesus has welcomed us into his family. He has modeled for us what it looks like to be obedient in the midst of a broken, sinful world. He's invited us to follow after him. Community and service go hand in hand. We are intended to be a newly formed family, living in an intimate community with one another, eager to do good works, to serve and invite our neighbors who are outside of our family to be welcomed into the family through the grace of Jesus. So the application question for us then becomes, are we doing that? Are we cultivating an intentional community with one another that resembles family? And this room's big.

We can't be family with everybody. I want to be family with all of you. I really do. Well, that was a joke. That was low-hanging fruit. Sometimes I make jokes and I'm like, that is not, that is not good. And that happened. And you guys saw it happen just in the moment. So I do. And I love, I love all of you. But it's not possible. That's why we talk about getting out of rows and into circles, like cultivating family in small groups of people within this context. That's why we talk about small groups a lot. Because we want you to be known by people. And what's funny is the people that are in small groups, whether they're church-ordained or not, the people that are living in tight-knit community with one another in this body are

the people that I hear from the least. Because they have everything they need in one another. And when I do hear stories about people that are going through stuff, it's like I heard about how somebody in their community met the need that they had, and we never even knew about it. This happens on a regular basis. You guys know that you're living in community, and when stuff gets hard, when things get difficult, when the spouses fight, when the money is getting low, like we turn to each other. And if you have that community already formed, we have everything we need in the community that Jesus has given us. Are we cultivating that? And if not, and if you're struggling to find that and you need help with that, come ask me. Come ask one of our leaders.

We'll help you. Go out to the cutout, whatever we call that room that has no walls, three walls. It's getting live. We're getting close to the end here, people.

Go out to that room and talk to those people who are starting small groups. Look to your neighbor. Look to your, stay after and find somebody that looks like you would like them and say, you want to go to fires and share our feelings with one another? Like, start somewhere because discipleship to Jesus is not just agreeing with this information, but it's doing something with it. We've got to do something with the information that we've been given. Are we cultivating this community? Kelly, you can come on up. Because it's getting bad up here. Or do we only see each other two and a half times a month for about an hour at a time? I don't think this is what Paul means when he says he gave himself to redeem us from all wickedness, to purify himself, a people that are his very own.

Does not see you in two weeks for an hour, and I forget your name. Imagine a church community that cultivates familial relationships with one another who are eager to do good works on behalf of their neighbors. This is our vision that we're working towards for the next at least eight weeks. And I encourage you to lean in. Join a small group. Get out of rows and into circles. Invest in the community that Christ has formed by giving his life. May we be eager to do real lives. This literally is built into our mission and our vision statement. Our mission statement is inviting real people with real lives into a Christ-centered community, a family. And our vision is that we would cultivate the kingdom of God outside of these walls. This is who we are. Are we doing it?

Or is it just something that we put on our website? And I'm being a little bit harsh here because Paul gave me permission. Let's read verse 15 real quick. These then are the things that, Titus, you should teach. Encourage and rebuke with all authority. Do not let anyone despise you. And so if I keep getting in your grill, if you're not living in community and serving outside of yourselves, just know I'm obeying the Scriptures. Right? It's what I've been told to do. These are the things that we need to cultivate as a church. And when we're not doing it, I am going to press. And when you see me not modeling it, there's way more of you than there is of me. So you go to our board and they'll press me. Okay? There's six, seven, eight of them.

They'd love to press me. I don't need all 300 of you pressing me. But there's, you guys have representatives. But if you see me not living into this, like, let's do this thing together. And I love, love, love how God works. As I was creating this message about community and service, joining together as a family and then going outside of ourselves to serve, I got the easiest, lowest hanging fruit application for all of us this week. I got a text from my friend Allie, young girl who is working with an organization that are collecting donations for people who are in elderly homes. There's an insert in your bulletin. Like, what a way for us to come back next week and fill the lobby with gifts for these people who are struggling, who are hurting, who are alone, who need community, who need family.

What a way for us to rally behind our sister Allie who's doing the work, who's eager to do good works for a group of people who are hurting. So if you don't join a small group, if you don't do any of the stuff that we've talked to, like, just go get a gift for somebody in need and bless Allie and send her out to be the hands and feet of Jesus. This is as easy as it comes.

Jesus welcomed us into his family so we might be sent to our neighbors. Happens through adoption, alignment, and anticipation. And I do not have a poem. So we're going to pray. I'm in the Dr. Seuss phase right now with my child. You don't want me to be making up any poems at the end of the sermon. Oh, Father in heaven, Abba, we are so grateful that you have welcomed us into a family, a diverse, multi-generational, multi-ethnic, multi-denominational family of God. Brothers and sisters, mothers and fathers.

It's not easy, but it's better than the alternative. God, we thank you for taking us from orphans on the run to heirs of your kingdom. Thank you for pulling us out of the streets and sitting us around your table. We thank you for the promise that you're coming again and that all of creation will resemble your table with Jesus at the head. Until that day comes, God, we seek to cultivate little versions of that all throughout our living rooms. We seek to take the encouragement and the love that we receive from the small group that we do life with, and we seek to take it out to a world filled with orphans grasping at anything they can to get some version, watered down, diluted version of the love that you have given them freely. If they would just put their hands up and surrender to you.

God, help us to cultivate a community that invites real people with real lives into a Christ-centered community and help us cultivate your kingdom throughout our city for your glory, for our good, and for the good of our neighbors. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right, I tried to finish a little bit early so that you can stay and hang out with one another. I kind of did that. So now the job's on you. Go in peace, church. Prayer team, if you need prayer. Every time. Prayer team, if you want me to take care of me, I'm going to take care of you, for years, I've run the fast lane, and my traits are wearing thin. I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you.

I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you, I'm going to take care of you. For years I've run the fast lane, and my traits are wearing thin. I've run the fast lane, and my treads are wearing thin. Left me on the shoulder, broken and pulled over, alone in my skin. Some things weren't my choosing. Sometimes I let the charge. Chasing dreams are so it seems.

Down on Fools Boulevard, I could use a little church right now. Love to have a little family around. I've been feeling so overwhelmed. I could use a little church right now. My cup's about as empty as this wilderness I'm in. I lost my way with the loss of love that came to a bitter end.
