Psalm 22
2025-07-28
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7cjj3PUuJAg

I want you to see what God is doing in this passage. Let's pray. I want you to see what God is doing in this passage. I want you to see what God is doing in this passage. I want you to be able to see what God is doing in this passage. I want you to be able to see what God is doing in this passage. I want you to be able to see what God is doing in this passage. I want you to be able to see what God is doing in this passage. I want you to be able to see what God is doing in this passage. I want you to be able to see what God is doing in this passage.

I love the baptism. This is why we're here. I'm so glad we're able to see what God is doing in this passage. I'm so glad we're able to witness that this morning. It's a commitment Shawna has made that she will never abandon the faith. We won't abandon her. We'll be with her as she grows in faith, joining the community. And we know that God's made that commitment to us that He'll never abandon us, right? That's what it's about. And what April read this morning was this future vision of how the world will be at rest and God will rule the world, right? And it's interesting to note that the beginning of that psalm starts, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" What's that about, right? Those words are the words that Jesus cried out from the cross.

Those words that Jesus cried out from the cross were first penned by King David almost a thousand years earlier, as he was in danger of losing his life violently and unjustly in what would appear to be a loss of all God's promises for his hope and his family's future. And there are moments after we've committed ourselves, after we've been baptized, after we started living our lives, we've committed, we think we've done the right thing, and we're not getting the right result, right? And we say to ourselves, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" A little more dramatic than maybe David, who was in danger of losing his kingdom or Christ who is currently being executed, right? But we feel this. We thought we'd done it right. Why have you forsaken me?" And if you...our premise in this...well, I should say first, I stammer a lot.

And I sometimes feel like I'm not conveying everything that's in the subject that we're studying. But this topic today, Psalm 22, I know it's not false humility, it's not self-censorship. When the living luminous Word in His final moments of life, the Creator come to earth, taken on flesh to redeem His creation, expressed Himself using these words, neither I nor anyone else can ever fully plumb the depth of what that means, right? We will study it, and the most we can hope to bring out of it is a dim glimmer of what He must have meant. Grappling with this reality should, as He surrendered this infinite sacrifice for us, and used these words, it should leave us with a deepening sense of the mystery of His person and His sacrifice. And so if you find that at the end of this half hour we have together this morning that you have more questions than answers,

that probably means you're listening. It probably means you're going the right direction, right? So our guiding assertion in this psalm series has been that most of the Scripture speaks to us, but psalms speak for us. And if that hasn't really made sense to you, if you don't know what praying in the psalms means or what it means to have the psalms speak for you, it should become abundantly clear as we watch Christ in His final moment on the cross letting a psalm speak for Him, right? At that moment when He has to express the inexpressible, He reaches back a thousand years to a man who has been through intense agony and uses those words to express himself. In His final moments of life, Matthew shows us, in Matthew 2, 27, as He records the crucifixion, He shows us Christ using David's words, yes, to express Himself.

But also, very importantly, we need to understand, He's showing Christ explaining to all who were standing there before Him what was happening in that moment by referencing this song from the past. The Gospel writers are just mind-numbingly, frustratingly short on detail. They say, "And Jesus walked on water." And that's all they say about it, right? I want more details about that, right? And they just kind of blew past it, because it's just something they saw one day. He walked on water, and then we went and got lunch, you know. Oh, and He multiplied the lunch by 5,000, right? And they just keep going past that, right? But Psalm 22, when Christ cried out from the cross, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" and brought this song into everyone's mind by naming its title, because they titled things by the first line back then.

The Gospel writers, all four of them, then spend paragraphs and paragraphs drawing out the parallels of what that suddenly meant to them, right? We can see that it must have just crystallized in their minds, elucidate all that He'd been saying. Suddenly, this prophetic Psalm that talks about death and execution and being the Messiah, which has been mysterious for years, thousands of years, a thousand years, they, in a flash, they must have had some sense of what that meant, very confusingly, because He's still dying. But it's left in their minds to dwell over in those days until they see His resurrection, right? So, with all that in mind, let's actually read what David wrote, okay? We're going to do a responsive reading, because I love doing that. It's longish, and we're going to read it together. I'll read the parts in normal strip, and you guys read the bold parts.

Stand with me as we read God's Word together, okay? My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, from my words and my groaning? Oh, my God, I cry by day, but you don't answer me, and by night, but I find no rest. There we go. Yet you are holy, and groan on the praises of Israel. And you are our fathers trusted, and they trusted, and you delivered them. To you they cried, and were rescued. In you they trusted, and were not put to shame. But I am a worm, and not a man. I'm scorned by mankind, and despised by the people. All who see me mock me. They make mouths at me. They wag their heads. He trusted in the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, for he delights in him.

Yet you are he who took me from the womb. You made me trust you, and have none of his trust. Be you as I cast from my birth, and from my mother's womb, because in my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there's none to come to me. Many bulls encompass me. The strong bulls of Bashan surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like ravening, roaring lions. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a posthum, and my tongue sticks to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death. For dogs encompass me. A company of evildoers encircles me, and they've pierced my hands and feet.

I can count all my bones, and they stare and gloat over me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. But you, O Lord, do not be far off. O you, my help, come quickly to my aid. Deliver my soul from the storm, and my precious life from the power of the dogs. Save me from the mouth of the lion. You have rescued me from the horn of the wild oxen. I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. You who fear the Lord, praise Him. All you offspring of Jacob, glorify Him, and stand in awe of Him. All you offspring of Israel. For he does not despise the authority of the afflicted, and he has not hidden his face from him, but has heard him not to them.

From you comes my praise in the great congregation. My vow I will perform before those who fear Him. The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied, and those who seek Him shall praise the Lord. May your hearts live forever. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord. All the families of the nations shall worship before Him. For kingship belongs to the Lord, and He rules over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship. And before Him shall bow down all who go down to the dust, even ones who could not keep themselves alive. Prosperity shall serve Him. It shall be told of the Lord to the coming generations. They shall come and proclaim His righteousness to a people yet unborn that He has done it. And that it is finished, right? You may be seated.

So, I hope, and I expect, that many of you saw a number of parallels to the story of Christ's crucifixion as we read that out loud. And hopefully you heard it anew. I'm just going to run quickly over some of the details which are not immediately obvious to a modern reader to help fill in some of the blanks, help understand some of the things. Quickly, potsherd. How many people use the word potsherd conversationally? Okay. Today we have cardboard boxes, metal canisters, jugs, plastic, bags made of cloth that come from foreign countries. We have any number of holding mechanisms, and we carry water bottles with us everywhere. All of those things would have been handled by pottery pots in the ancient world. And every time, they were tender, these pottery pots. They were fragile. They broke easily.

Every time you broke one, it really wasn't worth fixing it. You just crashed it and got another one, for the most part. And so the ancient world was just littered and paved. Mosaics were made out of them. They were used as post-its. Everywhere you looked, there were shards, broken, dried out, useless chunks of what had been an important vessel in someone's life. And that's how David's picturing himself. I am just a broken, useless, dried out shard of a thing that used to be useful. And that's what Christ is bringing to mind. The second one that might not have made a lot of sense to you is the bulls of Bashan. Anybody use that conversation? Okay. Bashan, who was symbolized by their bulls, they're mighty because they had a lot of oxen. And some translations of your Bible will say oxen instead of bulls.

But they were this mythically large, history recorded them as a mythically large people that resisted Israel's entrance into the Promised Land when they were still just a Hebrew slave people. And it was this moment that this rabble of slaves coming out of the desert knew they could never overcome this mighty army of giant warriors. And somehow, miraculously, God allowed that to happen. He stood up for the nation and they were able to come into the Promised Land past the bulls of Bashan, right? And they stood in everyone's memory as this mighty moment when God had stood up for Israel and made the impossible happen. And they did overcome an impossible adversary that had been guarding the borders to their promise. So David is saying here, "I know you did it for other people. How come you're not doing it for me?

I know it can only happen if you do it. Are you going to do it for me?" Right? "Why have you forsaken me? I feel forsaken, but I know you didn't forsake my ancestors." Right? That's what the bulls of Bashan are. Two other things, if you look in your Scripture that don't make immediate sense maybe, is that title block, the rubric at the top. It says, "To the Doe of the Dawn." This is not a dedication. This was a folk tune called "The Doe of the Dawn." As far as we know, we don't have the tune. But it just meant that David had written this song to be sung to a tune that everyone knew, because this was supposed to be a universally useful song that people sang over and over. Which they had for thousands of years, which is why, when Christ called it out, everyone immediately knew what he was talking about. Right?

And the last thing that tied to that, at the top, you'll see that most Psalms didn't have, they didn't have chapter numbers, and they didn't have titles. They were just called out by their first line. But this particular song has a title above it called "Why Have You Forsaken Me?" Right? Why is that? It's probably because in an effort to be respectful, they didn't want to keep yelling out the name of God as just a page title, a song title. So they retitled it "Why Have You Forsaken Me?" so that every time you referred to it, you didn't have to say, "My God, my God." Right? But Christ didn't yell it out that way. He yelled out, "My God, my God," because it was personal. And that would have been jarring to the audience. It wasn't an audience, but to the crowd that was there that day. It would have brought them back to the bulk of the crux of the story and what David had been feeling when he wrote it.

If I say to you guys, "Amazing grace," you know the next line is? That saved a wretch like me, right? This is a song about grace overcoming wretchedness. And we all know it by the first line of the song. And we know it so often. We've said it so often. We've heard it so often. Inside and Outside Church is a famous tune. My son plays it on the bagpipe all the time at secular events, right? Just a great tune everybody knows. And we forget the significance of grace overcoming wretchedness, right? But if you were at a moment where someone was brought out of wretched depths by grace and yelled out, "Amazing grace," suddenly that would take on new meaning to you. And this is what's happening on the cross. When Christ calls out, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"

The entire song plays through people's minds. And they hear not just the opening line, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" They hear the ending line that April read to us this morning, right? "It has been done. He will rule the earth." So the listening crowd would have found significance in words that they knew so well and they'd cease to consider that deeper meaning in. But more than that, Christ would have been presenting them with a meaning way beyond what they'd been able to think of before that morning when they heard him yell that from the cross that afternoon. So that should leave us all with about four basic questions that we can address in one morning. And they are, "How would the crowd have understood the psalm before Christ yelled that out that morning?"

"What would they have understood it to be before that?" Secondly, based on what the Gospel writers have highlighted for us, to tell us what is it they heard and understood that day, right? What do we know that they heard and knew? Third, based on that, what extra meaning would have broken in on them when they heard Christ cry that song of David from the cross? And most importantly, maybe for us, we should answer to ourselves, "Had God forsaken him then?" Like, if he yelled out, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" "Had God forsaken him?" Will he forsake us? Is that a possibility? No. Don't want too much anxiety there. So quickly about David. David, from those who don't know, and those who do will have a refresher, he was anointed, he was born under the rule of another king, to whom he was not related, and he was anointed as a very young man

to take that king's place. So he was God's anointed usurper, which meant his entire youth and young adulthood was spent running from the wrath of that king who did not want to be usurped, and who wanted to kill him, so that he didn't take the kingship away from that king's son, right? So this is a difficult life, and there's a whole, all through Samuel, you can read the story of David's childhood and young adulthood, where he's running in fear and terror and crying out to God and his help, and a lot of the Psalms came from here, and it's very possible that this Psalm was written at that point when he'd had this promise that he would be king if he ruled and, you know, followed God, and in fact, he was instead being chased through the desert and being forced to

become kind of a bandit mercenary king, which incidentally led him to develop a lot of leadership and military skills that came in handy later in life, so God was using this time, although it didn't feel like it to David. So he could have written the Psalm at that point, but I don't think so. My best opinion is, David became king and ruled for years and unified the kingdom, all the tribes, into a mighty kingdom and subjected the nations around him so that they were his vassals and led everyone to follow the king, Jesus, God as king, who would, you know, and Jesus would be his Messiah to come. He had done all that, and then one of his sons formed a military coup against him and overthrew him and kicked him out of his kingdom.

And I believe at that moment, it's when this psalm was written, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? All the things you promised happened to me. I've led these people towards you. I've done the right thing. My mission was to do what I've done. Why have you forsaken me now?" He talks about seeing his possessions divided up in terms of an execution because in ancient world, the executioners would divide up clothing, but he's very easily could be talking about his, seeing his kingdom divided, ripped among those who were coming after him. And yet this poem ends with a triumph, right? Whether it was written in his youth or in his adulthood, this poem, this psalm that was sung for thousands of years later, actually heralds the fact that God did not forsake him, that he was restored to his kingship,

and that his descendant would go on forever. And he speaks in terms of an execution in all this. My hands and feet are pierced. I'm emaciated. I'm dried out. They're devouring me like lions, right? And I should say that not only the bulls of Bashan were mentioned, but it mentions bulls, dogs, and lions, right, that come after him. And then later on in the poem it says, "You've overcome the bulls, you will overcome the dogs, you will overcome the lions." The bulls we talked about, that's the mighty men that, you know, beset my kingdom. Lions the predator that's seeking to devour you, chasing you down, hunting you, right? For David, this would have been, you know, the people that were actively coming after his kingdom. For Christ, this would have probably been the Jewish leaders of the day that were seeking him out and trying to get him executed, right?

The dogs, on the other hand, are Gentiles. If you didn't know that, throughout the New Testament, whenever they say dogs, it's a metaphor for the Gentiles. And unlike lions who are mighty individually and to be feared, a pack of dogs is to be feared. And to the Jewish mind, this was a horde of unruly, ungodly folks that would just overwhelm you by numbers and tenacity, right? And these dogs are coming after me. And in Christ's time, it's clearly drawn out. This is the Romans around him, the Roman soldiers that are just too many and too powerful. And the lions and the dogs and the oxen show up in that middle part. I don't know if, when we read it, you probably stood out to you that in the beginning, David is sort of, it's not exactly whining.

I don't want to say whining because it was significant. When I pray this psalm out loud, it tends to come out whining, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why aren't things going the way I want?" Right? But it's also very real. I'm saying that because I feel very real and very abandoned sometimes. But that transitions at verse 10 from, "If you did it to the ancestors, why won't you do it for me? If you saved my ancestors from Bashan, why aren't you doing it for me?" You taught me to trust. You put me in a world where I sat at people who cared for me, my mother at her breast, and now no one cares for me. What's going on? This frustration, this betrayal, the rug's been pulled out from under me, transitions at verse 10.

It transitions at verse 10 to just a cry of despair because I'm being executed. I'm being attacked, right? It's no longer, "Are you going to save me?" It's, "Here's what's happening to me." My hands and feet are pierced. I'm emaciated. I'm beaten. The dogs or the lions coming to devour me now. And as you guys were reading in the middle of verse 21, that transitions again to, "You have overcome the bull." So there's a third section of this psalm, which is weirdly prophetic. David could very, very, very, in very real sense have considered that he was going to be executed. He was envisioning an execution that was likely to happen to him. There's no way he could have envisioned this stuff in the third part of the poem, right? It's ruling the all nations over all time to the distant ends of the earth, and my posterity will rule him.

Even the ones who could not overcome death will serve him, implying that he himself could overcome death. This is not David talking about himself. This is a prophetic moment. And so when Christ cries out from the cross, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" And they look around and they see the elements of this poem around them happening. They recognize this is the one who could overcome death. The Messiah, the whole picture of a Messiah, the Synod of David, that it's been rumored that Christ might have been a week earlier when he came into Jerusalem and they sang, "Hosanna, Hosanna, come save us." Suddenly, it's pictured in a new way. I've said before, you have to conceive something before you can believe it. And at this moment, the conception is laid in their minds in a way they had never had before,

so that they could believe it when they find him resurrected days later, okay? So that's David. Let's actually look at the parallels in the Gospel. The first one is in, obviously, Psalm 22:1. "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" It's very easy to see that parallel. If you could pull that up on the screen for me. There we go. Thank you. In Matthew 27 and Mark, they lay it out very clearly. "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" And they actually say it, here's how he said it in the Aramaic, right? They're trying to make it clear and vivid for you. In Psalm 22:6, David says, "I'm scorned by mankind and despised by people. All who see me mock me. They sneer and they shake their heads." Matthew 27 says, "Those who pass by deride me."

There you go. Thank you. "Those who pass by deride me, shaking their heads. The elders and scribes mocked him, saying, 'He saved others. He can't save himself.'" It's a direct parallel to what Matthew had read his whole life in Matthew and Mark and Luke. You see it's in all three Gospels there. Had read all their lives in that song, and are now seeing played out before them. They use the same wording to indicate it. Psalm 22:8, "When they mock me, they say, 'He trusts in the Lord, let him deliver him. Bring the light to see him.'" Matthew records, "He trusted in God. Let God rescue him now if he wants to, for he said, 'I am the Son of God.'" The direct parallel. They're laying it out for you because it was so impactful and meaningful to them.

Psalm 22:18, "They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots." John, Matthew, Mark, and Luke all record this, that they cast lots of his clothing. John says, "They took his clothes, dividing them, said, 'Let's not tear it.'" John said to one another, "Let's decide by lots who will get it." And then in case you weren't getting the parallel, that happened so that the Scripture might be fulfilled that said, "They divided my clothes among them and cast lots for my garment." So the soldiers did this. And he's telling us that God owns history. God owns the actions of men. These soldiers were not trying to reenact Psalm 22. They were not trying to make David's prophecy happen. God had seen that it would happen. He was forming their actions as they walked through the motions

of a prophesied future that they could not have known was going to happen. Psalm 22:15, "My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to my jaw." John, Matthew, Mark, and Luke all record how Christ's mouth was dry, and he cried out for water as he was going through his execution. Psalm 22, "I am poured out like water. My heart is like wax. It's melted within me." Which is a poetic sense of understanding the loss of self and the loss of all confidence. But it's also John saw a very physical reenactment of that as blood and water poured out from his side of what appeared to be a physical melting, right? Psalm 22:16 says, "They've pierced my hands and feet." We know that in executions, particularly crucifixions, the hands and feet were pierced.

And in John 20 and 19, they specifically say, "Yeah, he had nail holes in his hands and feet." Psalm 22:12 and 13 and 16, "The bulls encompass me. Strong bulls of Bash and surround me." "They open their mouths wide like ravening lions." "Dogs encompass me. A company of evil doers encircle me." That's specifically laid out in Mark 15:16-20. He draws a picture of it. It's more than will fit on the slide. But the entire narrative is of him being hunted down like as if by lions, surrounded by the dogs, and living out the difficulty of the character in David's psalm. And finally, Psalm 22:15, "You lay me down in the dust of death," which is, of course, what happened to Christ here as he went through this execution. Psalm 22:22 goes on, however, to say, "I will proclaim your name to my brothers, and in the midst of the assembly, I will praise you."

And Matthew and John go on to show us Jesus coming into, they use the word assembly, coming into the assembly of his disciples, and crediting his resurrection to his Father, actually walking through this. And I'd like to say, incidentally, it's not just Psalm 22. Luke gives us an additional, "Into your hands I commit my spirit," which we take in a very funereal sense, right? That is, "I'm giving up the ghost," is a common phrase we say in the modern world. But if you'll look at how "Into your hands I commit my spirit" is used in Psalm 31, where it comes from, that psalm begins with, in verse one, "In you, O Lord, I've taken refuge." It's a song of death. "You put out the net," which they've secretly, I'm sorry, "You will pull me out of the net they secretly laid for me."

Verse five, "Into your hands I commit my spirit, because you've ransomed me." Last verse, "Be strong and take courage, all of you who hope in the Lord." This is a song of salvation. This isn't saying, "Into your hands I commit my spirit, I'm giving up the ghost." This is saying, "I commit myself to you." Whatever happens with my spirit, it's on you. You are in control of my life. It's absolute faith. And the same is true with, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" Is he saying, "God has forsaken him?" He is not. He is saying, "At the moment when you feel most forsaken, is the moment at which God is coming." He is not forsaken. You just maybe can't see him right there. So, in describing the execution, David envisioned what he hadn't experienced, followed by a vision of the future beyond that execution, and far beyond his experience.

It's really, we know that the people of David's time, and between David and Christ over those thousand years, understood the Messiah to be a descendant of David who would come, and they had different ways of explaining what this very futuristic, undying language must have meant. But I would love to have talked to one of them that day and said, "In the context of this, how does that make sense to you now, right? How has that changed?"

So, did God forsake David? No, he did not. He restored David to the throne. This is not a trick question. Did God forsake Christ? No. Was it at a moment for both of them that seemed absolutely insurmountable? Yes. David had been run out of his kingdom and the armies were coming for him. He didn't have an army anymore. Jesus was literally hanging on the cross, having been executed. He was just waiting to die. We have less dramatic moments when we feel abandoned. We've been baptized. We've done the right thing, we think. We've tried to follow Christ, and we're not seeing the safety and the security. We feel like the rug's pulled out from under us by the actions of our children or the actions of someone we thought was a friend is now betraying us as an enemy.

We fall short of our own standards, and we feel like everything is gone, and we cry out, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" You must, in that moment, pray this psalm out to its end, right? Don't stop at that moment. This cry tells us that Jesus had touched the abandonment that David felt. It's very difficult. Jesus was holy God and holy man. It's impossible to conceptualize. The closest I've ever come is that I'm wholly rational, wholly emotional. At the same time, I experienced the same set of events two different ways at the same moment, right? And Christ, too, would have been wholly rational, wholly emotional as a man, a holy man, right? And in that moment, when he's crying out, he would have felt the terror of his separation from the immortal God

and really known it was happening at the same time. He would have cried out, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" The man understood the narrative that he was living out and cried out the title also for the good of those watching. So he's telling us we're not alone. It's fascinating to me that people love the book of Job most after they've gone through the kind of crisis that maybe only Job could understand. And the book of Job doesn't answer any of those questions, right? The book of Job just teaches you it's more important to have a companion than an answer. And by crying out, by just reading this, Christ had a companion in David, weirdly, right? And as we pray this psalm out loud, as we cry out, we have a companion in Christ who was real.

He really lived. He really died. He was really born again. David really lived a thousand years before that, really lost his kingdom, and in his terror cried out, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" And God restored him. You must read the psalm to the end. You must pray it out loud to the end. I just, as Shauna's in here, I encourage you specifically, as you start the walk today, you've been baptized. Pray it out to the end. Pray through the psalms, and know that in those moments when it feels all is lost, God is still there. He has performed in the past. He will perform again. God knows the end of our story already. Another thing he commanded us to do is to commemorate his sacrifice on the cross with communion, and we're going to do that today, okay?

As we take communion today, and I will say, if you didn't pick up a communion cup when you came in, feel free to get up and go get one now. We should think about the sacrifice he made on the cross. He was crying out, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" That means he felt, as you do, the despair of life. As we look at the news today, as we look at the chaos and the deliberate deception going on around us, everywhere, and we feel there's not a place sometimes for the Christian walk in the world, you have to understand that's how David felt. He's not some mythical history icon that had it all together and that God was always on his side, obviously, and that things always went well for him. He lived in chaos. People were seeking to kill him. There was no place for his worship of Yahweh in the world that he was trying to put it up together, build it in.

As we experience that, taking the time to come back and commune with one another, and with God, and to commemorate his sacrifice for us, in the moment when it seemed that everything was lost, it was not lost. In the moment when it seemed he was forsaken, he was not forsaken. That's what we should consider as we take communion today. So if you will, open your containers. On the night Jesus was betrayed, he washed the disciples' feet to show great humility. They sang their favorite hymn together to sing unity, and I love the idea that it might have been this one.

They ate a meal together in unity, and he taught them a new way to consider the meal, which was to say, "This is my body broken for you. Always take it. When you eat, rethink of me and the sacrifice I'm making for you." So let's take that together. And in the same way, he took the cup and said, "This is the blood of the new covenant poured out for you." And he said that before it had happened, right? He was on his way to the cross, and he was leaving this in their minds so they would know what would happen, and they could consider that he was going to come to sacrifice for them, to redeem them and bring them back to him. Take this in remembrance of me.

Father God, thank you for your mighty control in our lives. And as much as the world feels out of control and we feel tossed by the winds and the waves, we feel persecuted, we feel pursued, we feel like the things that we were supposed to do don't have the outcomes that we'd like them to have. I pray that we could rest in you. I pray that we would see to the end of the story as well as you can let us, and trust that you are coming and you will deliver as you have before. Bring us that kind of faith. Bring us a community to bolster that faith. And let us live strongly in you. In Jesus' name, amen. Thank you guys for coming today. Go with God this week and we'll see you next weekend. Thank you. Thank you.
