PTW Service: AVAILABILITY
2025-11-03
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JaPD7vZyxyg

*music*

Well, good morning, Gary. Good morning, Kansas Community Church. Sorry, inside joke shouldn't be for the stage, but I had to. I'm so glad that you all have joined us this morning. I have a bunch of jokes in my head and I'm trying to decide which one would be funniest. So, I got a joke about baseball and a joke about time change. Which one do you guys prefer? Baseball! So, you know, the World Series happened last night, which I know everybody knows about because baseball is super popular. I watch baseball only at the World Series and I try and find a rooting interest and this year the rooting interest was America versus Canada. And, like, Canadians, like, they can't win. It's America's sport. And we did it, guys. We won. We beat the Canadians. So, I know some of you are Dodgers fans and some of you just love America and some of you are like, "Can you just open the Bible and stop talking about these things?"

So, I got time, so we'll do both jokes, you know? You guys got an hour? God gave you all an hour of sleep last night. So, you're going to tithe ten more minutes to my sermon this morning, alright? We're going long this morning. It's going to be great. I'm just kidding. I don't know. We'll see what happens. Alright. We are, as you can tell, coming down the homestretch of a two-part series on community and service, and coming out of that are heading towards, can you believe it, Advent? I know, it happens very, very quickly, but we will be there before we know it. And I hope that this series has encouraged us to lean more intentionally into community. We talk a lot at this church about getting out of rows and into circles. That what church is about is more than just what happens here on a Sunday morning.

It's actually far more about what happens in our relationships with our brothers and sisters in Christ. As we gather around a table, as we think about Jesus and talk about what He's calling us to as we hold each other accountable. And as we serve outside of ourselves, that God didn't just call us together in community for ourselves, but for the world around us. And so I hope we've been doing that. I hope we've been leaning more intentionally into community and service and would love just to hear stories of what God's been doing in and through that. And so if you have anything you want to share with me, we'd love to hear it. The week after this service, this series, we have slated a testimony Sunday. And so if you have testimonies of what God's been doing specifically around these areas of community and service,

we'd love for you to share those with me so we can figure out what God might want us to hear. So just to recap where we've been with the service series in particular, we started it by saying that Christ-like service isn't a religious activity, but a spiritual fruit. And so if we want to do the type of service that Jesus is inviting us to, we don't do it out of religious duty, but we do it out of a spiritual fruit that God is bringing up in us. Because Jesus has served us, we serve others. We serve from a genuine relationship. Last week, we talked about the importance of practicing service first in private so that we cultivate pure motivations. Because service is one of those things where it's really easy for us to do the right things for the wrong reasons.

We all have friends online that do a lot of service, but only do service that they can post on social media. Right? Right? No? Okay. Anyway, I'm judging all my friends. But service is one of those things. It's easy to do the right thing for the wrong reason. And so we start as followers of Jesus by cultivating pure motives so that we can do the right things for the right reasons. And today we are moving towards becoming a people who can do the right things both in private and public and who know what are the right things for us to do. Because we cannot do everything. We can only do some things. And so what are the things that God is calling us to do? That's where we're headed today. Sound good? All right. Let's pray.

Father in heaven, you are so good. God, we gave you our worst and you gave us your best. Sometimes we even think that we're not giving you our worst. We think, like Paul, that we have some good religious activity in our hands to give back to you. And the reality is nothing that we could give you is worthy of what you have given to us. So, Father, this morning we just want to receive what you've given to us with open hands and open hearts. We want you to fill up our cup so that those around us can be blessed, not by our activity, but by your activity through us. Holy Spirit, come continue to be in the room with us and speak to us through your word. I pray that whatever comes out of my mouth wouldn't matter, that each of us would hear what you want us to hear.

That by your spirit, God, you would even communicate things that I don't even say to the people that need to hear it for your glory, for their good, and for the good of our neighbors. It's in Jesus' name I pray, amen. I want us to start this morning reminiscing a little bit. So, I'd love for you to bring to mind your favorite restaurant, cheap restaurant, favorite cheap restaurant that you frequented when you had absolutely no money. And if you've got it in your mind, go ahead and shout it out. What is your favorite cheap restaurant? Denny's. Denny's. We got a Denny's. We got a cookout. Okay, that's cheap. Yep. Wendy's. More Denny's? Wendy's. Wendy's. All right, all right. Value meal? Absolutely. So, Bojangles. Hmm. You got to teach me how to eat Bojangles for cheap, but I am from West Virginia, so I have

a soft spot in my heart for a place by the name of Waffle House. Anybody? Anybody? All right. Waffle House. Love me some Waffle House. My college town had a Waffle House, and I have fond memories of Marissa and I doing late-night dates in our sweatpants at the local Waffle House. And that's when I knew I wanted to marry her, when she was like, "Let's go on a date and wear sweatpants." I'm like, "Done. We're in. We're gonna eat waffles. This is great." So, I bought the ring that night after our first Waffle House date. And there is a lot to love about Waffle House, in my personal opinion. Maybe you can disagree, but that's okay. But for me, one thing that isn't super lovable is this menu. Does anybody else get overstimulated by menus with too many options?

Okay. I mean, the place is called Waffle House, for goodness sakes. Look at this. Look at all these options. It literally says on this menu, there are more than 3,538,944 ways to enjoy our hash browns. Waffle House, what are you doing to me? Another place that's like this is the Cheesecake Factory. You guys ever seen their menu? Yeah, it's stressful. It stresses me out. I get overwhelmed. Way too many options, right? And not only do I get overstimulated by the options, and let's be honest, there's only like six things on this menu that I'm actually considering, but I feel like I have to read the whole thing. And so I get overstimulated by the menu, and then I'm too distracted to have a conversation, which is kind of the whole point of going on a date with your girlfriend, right?

So she's like trying to talk to me, and I'm like, not now, okay? Not right now. I have too many things to figure out before we can have a conversation. We're overstimulated, and we are easily distracted. And I think that these two issues, being overstimulated and easily distracted, are two issues that often keep Christians, followers of Jesus, from knowing what it is that God's calling them to do in the area of service, right? Like we look at the world around us, the brokenness of the world around us, and it's like one of these menus. There's too many problems for us to solve. There's too many things for us to accomplish. There's too much. And so instead of doing something, we just get overwhelmed, and oftentimes we do nothing. Not only that, we get overstimulated, we get distracted, we're so busy, our lives are so busy,

that when needs do arise, when it comes obvious to us that there is an opportunity for us to meet a need, we're too busy to be bothered to meet the need right in front of us. We're overstimulated, we're easily distracted. And what can we learn from Christ's example of service that might help us serve more effectively in our day and age? Ephesians 2:10 says that God, that we are created in Christ Jesus for good works, which he prepared in advance for us to do. There are some acts of service that you have been called to do. You're not called to do them all. You're called to do something. There are acts of service that God has prepared in advance for you to do, both intentionally and interruptibly. And that's what I want to look at this morning.

I want to look at two examples from Christ's life where he serves both with intentionality and with, I think this word is made up, but we're going with it anyway, interruptibility. Sound good? Intentionality, interruptibility. And for those of you who love to take notes, somehow, some way, by the grace of God and the power of the Holy Spirit, I have notes on the back of your, on your bulletin. I know some of you are super pumped. You're like, did you not get it? Go ahead, Brian. All right, the one person that begs me to do it didn't get a bulletin this morning. We got notes on the back of the bulletin. All right. So we're going to look at two examples of Jesus where he serves intentionally and interruptibly. It's going to be a struggle this morning with that word.

You guys are going to have to stick with me. Okay. If you have your Bibles, open up to John chapter four and flip your bulletins to the back. John chapter four, starting in verse four.

Read one verse and then we'll read more verses later. Sound good? Never mind. Now he had to go through Samaria. Can you guys say that with me? Now he had to go through Samaria. So John starts this story that's going to become a famous story that many of you know by the conversation of Jesus with the woman at the well in Samaria. John starts out this story by saying that Jesus had to go through Samaria. There's a real emphasis on this like there's no other option. Right? And Jesus is God. He's got plenty of options. He can do what he wants. He can do what he wants. He's God. And yet John says that Jesus had to go through Samaria. And this is strange language specifically since we know from some cultural writings among the days, especially from Josephus, that many rabbis, Jewish rabbis would avoid going through Samaria altogether.

Like there was actually a thing going around in today where they would intentionally avoid Samaria. And so for John to say that Jesus had to go through Samaria, myself and many scholars believe that he's using this term not for geographical reasons, but for theological reasons. He's not saying Jesus had to go through Samaria because it was the only road to get to where he was going. There was actually other options. He's saying that Jesus had to go through Samaria for some other reason altogether. And I would make the argument that I think Jesus had to go through Samaria on this particular time and this particular day because Jesus had a spiritual call on his life. He had a spiritual call to take a trip through Samaria at this point in his ministry because it was an intentional part of his calling as the Messiah.

There are prophecies throughout the Scripture that dictate some things that Jesus, if he is the Messiah, had to do in order to fulfill the promises of the Messiah. And one of those is to unite the northern and southern kingdom of Israel. We read this in Ezekiel chapter 37. This is a prophecy about what Messiah will do when he comes. It says, I will make them one nation in the land. On the mountains of Israel, one king shall be king over all of them. My servant David shall be king over them and they shall all have one shepherd. I will make a covenant of peace with them. It shall be an everlasting covenant with them. So one thing I think we don't often realize when we read the New Testament is that oftentimes the New Testament talks about Jews.

Jews, it's talking about people from the southern tribes, the three southern tribes, Benjamin, Judah, and Levi. And most of the northern tribes are kind of intermingled into the cultural day. And many of them fall into this category of Samaritan, where they are this group of half Jews who are from the northern tribe and are kind of mixed with the culture of the day. And yet they are still a part of, they are descendants of the promise of the Messiah. They are descendants of the promise of Abraham. And one of Jesus' calls as Messiah is to unite both northern tribe and southern tribe into one nation again. And I believe that this is like the first fruits of God, of Jesus kind of living into this part of his specific calling that he's going to Samaria to engage this group of people.

To do the thing that he's been called to do, to unite them into one people who will serve one king and worship on one mountain. Part of who Jesus is and what he came to do included reuniting the northern and southern tribes of the people of Israel. And this intentional act of service that he had to do, I see as Christ's first act of obedience in this calling, this specific part of the calling on his life. We can read on starting in verse seven. He has to go through Samaria. And because he does this, he ends up having a unique conversation with a woman at the well. In verse seven, it says, when a Samaritan woman came down or came to draw water, Jesus said to her, will you give me a drink? His disciples had gone into town to buy food.

The Samaritan woman said to him, you are a Jew and I am a Samaritan woman. How can you ask me for a drink? For the Jews did not associate with the Samaritans. Jesus answered her, if you knew the gift of God and who it was that asks you for a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water. Jesus is beginning to engage her in a relationship and a conversation about what she believes and what it is that this division between the Samaritans and the Jews is all about. And we don't have time to read the whole conversation. But starting in verse 19, she replies to him, sir, the woman said, I can see that you are a prophet. And now she wants to get into theological conversation. She says, our ancestors worshiped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem.

Woman, Jesus replied, believe me, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem. You Samaritans, worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know for salvation is from the Jews. Yet a time is coming and has now come when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit and his worshipers must worship in spirit and in truth. The woman said, I know that Messiah called Christ is coming. And when he comes, he will explain everything to us. She's like, I know we've got this debate going on, northern tribe, southern tribe. I know we have disagreements about theology, but we're all waiting for a Messiah. He's going to come and he's going to set us all straight.

Jesus declared, I, the one speaking to you, am he. Amen. Jesus, the Messiah, on his call to unite the northern tribes, the southern tribes, and ultimately all of creation underneath the banner of King Jesus has come. And he is engaging this woman because he had to go. He had to go and serve this woman in this way. And what is the result? And what is the result? The result of this unique conversation on this unique day because Jesus had to go into Samaria is this. In verse 39, it says, many of the Samaritans from that town believed in him because of this woman's testimony. So when the Samaritans came to him, they urged him to stay with him and he stayed two days. And because of his words, many more became believers. They said to the woman, we no longer believe just because of what you said.

Now we have heard for ourselves. And we know that this man really is the savior of the world. A number of people from the descendants of the northern tribe come to believe that Jesus is the Messiah because of verse four. Because Jesus had to go through Samaria because he served with intentionality because he had this calling on his life. He knew what he was called to do and he went and he did it. And I think this sets an example for us of how we should think about serving others. This one act of intentional service, it included a divine appointment. And God used that to turn the conversation into the conversion of many Samaritans, which is the first fruit of the prophecies of Ezekiel 37. And although there are a ton of implications for this passage and for us, my primary implication for this morning is that the thing we saw in verse four, that he had to go to Samaria.

When we know geographically, he did not have to go. He went because of his calling. He went because the spirit led him there. And I believe that we as individuals have callings on our life that God is inviting us to go into, to step into. That there are places and people and things that we have to go and do. Good works that God created in advance for us to do. And my fear is that we are avoiding doing anything at all because we are so overwhelmed by the great need of the culture around us.

He had to go. Again, I believe that each of us have unique callings, unique thing in our life that God has invited us to do. But oftentimes we're overstimulated by all the opportunities that we don't do anything because we're not sure what the right thing to do is. And today I want to remind us that God did not call us to do everything. He did not call each of one of us to do the same thing. But there are some things that we, as if you're a follower of Jesus in this room, you have been created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which he prepared in advance for you to do. There are things that you have to do. Nobody else will do them if you don't do them. There are callings on your life that you are invited to participate with by God through the Holy Spirit that he will use you to do.

And unfortunately, unlike Jesus, we don't have like a list of things written down that we have to do, right? Jesus had prophecies about the Messiah that he had to accomplish. We can't look in the book and be like, what is the thing that Leon is called to do? It's not in there, right? The Holy Spirit has to awaken this in our lives. We have to discern this from the Holy Spirit and from community. And it has to align with Scripture, but the Scriptures aren't going to give us the specific thing that each one of us are called for. This is why we are invited into relationship with the Holy Spirit. And so on your bulletin, I have this Venn diagram, and I think this can help us when we think about how we are called to serve intentionally.

There's this Venn diagram, three Ps because I'm a good Baptist kid. Person, place, and passion. And I think when we're trying to discern what it is that God might be calling us to, I think we can think about these three descriptors. And I would encourage you to even take some time this week to prayerfully think through this. First person, who are you? Like, what skills do you have? What unique abilities do you have? What spiritual gifts has God given you? Who are you? What has God gifted you to be? What makes you unique as a person? And many of us struggle to think this way because we compare ourselves to others and we think others are better than we are. But sit in a chair somewhere with the Holy Spirit and ask the Holy Spirit to reveal to you what is special and unique about you.

What has God gifted you to do? What skills? What abilities? Who are you before a holy and loving God who's inviting you to serve out of your gifting with Him? Secondly is place. Where do you live, work, and play? Like, who is around you as the person that God has made you to be? Who are the people that God has put you into relationship with? And most of the time, this will likely be a group of people that we're already in relationship with. But sometimes God puts a calling on your life for a group of people or a place that is not where you live. You guys have heard stories of missionaries receiving this call to go to a foreign land, a distant land, have a burden for a group of people or a situation, and they feel called by God.

They feel like there's no option, like they have to go to this place or this thing. And so I don't want to rule that out as a possibility for some of you. Maybe the Lord is calling you to a place that you aren't currently at. But for most of us, it will likely be a group of people or a relationship or a connection that we already have. Who are we? Who has God made us to be? And where do we live, work, or play? What is the place that we exist in? And then lastly, passion. What breaks our heart? What hurts us deep down inside? And what needs in my community awaken my passion? Right? Like, if we look at this menu, you can walk out the door this week, you can turn on the news, and you can see a plethora of things where people are in need in our community.

And all of them likely break your heart in some way, shape, or form as a follower of Jesus, or just as a human being who values other human beings. You're likely heartbroken over all kinds of things, but likely there is a few things or a group of things that really just gets you going, gets you fired up. Anybody know what I'm, can you bring it to mind right now? There are things that fire you up. Where do these things come into alignment with one another? Who you are, who God's made you to be, what your gifting, your spiritual gifts are, the place that God's called you to be, and then the things that burden you, that break your heart in the midst of this area. I would say, spend some time with this chart, and spend some time with the Holy Spirit, and invite God to give you some wisdom, to eliminate some sections off of the menu, right?

It's like, God, I wanna serve you, I wanna do what you're calling me to do, but this is overwhelming. And like, maybe he narrows it down to just the hash browns, I don't know. But we invite the Holy Spirit to give us wisdom, and many of us already have these things. We have a calling, we have a passion, we know what we're called to do, and I would just say, don't grow weary in doing good. If you know what your thing is, if you're already doing your thing, like, don't keep adding more and more things to your plate. Just stay laser focused on the thing that God is calling you to, and do not grow weary in doing good. Because even when we step out and serve, oftentimes it'll feel like climbing an uphill battle.

We'll have one small victory where we'll see the hope of Jesus strike in somebody's eyes, and we'll feel like we're really making a difference. And then the next week, feel like we're wasting our time. And this is kingdom work in a broken world. And so spend some time with this diagram. Think about it. Pray about it. Make a list. And then in your time of prayer, bring it to your community. This is part of the reason that we function in small groups. So you can come to your group and you can say, I really feel like the Lord laid this on my heart. I'm going to go sing a solo at the wherever. I'm going to go hymn sing. And someone in your group goes, nope. God did not call you to go hymn sing.

I can tell you that for sure. Right? So there's this important thing that has to happen. We have to do some listening prayer with the Holy Spirit. It has to align with Scripture, right? If we're burdened or passionate about something that Scripture isn't burdened or passionate for, then we're in the wrong spot. So listening prayer by the Holy Spirit in alignment with the Scriptures, and then encouragement, affirmation from the body of Christ. And sometimes, too, these callings will be seasonal. They can change from period of time to period of time. And sometimes we get locked into an area of ministry. And we think we're supposed to do that ministry for the rest of our life. And we just don't even entertain the idea that God might be calling us to something else in a different season of our life.

Oftentimes, like parents of young children, you don't have as much time, right? And so you've got to limit your scope of service so that you can have the biggest impact with the time that you have. And then maybe later in your life, you find yourself with a lot more margin, a lot more bandwidth, and you can then reconsider, God, what is it that you might be wanting me to do? Should I add another opportunity? Are you pivoting me to a different calling? And I just think that there are things that God has called you to serve with intentionality in. And if you're not praying and asking the Holy Spirit to give you wisdom, you'll just be staring at this menu and not doing anything at all. Does it make sense? I love this quote from Frederick Buechner, would be my guess.

I probably should have had Google pronounce it for me. He says, "The place that God calls you to is the place where your deep gladness and the world's deep hunger meet." This is this idea that there is a calling that God has placed on your life and that he's invited you to serve intentionally in a certain area or a certain place. And oftentimes the place is where you as a person get most excited about serving the thing that your community most needs. And one other thing that I would mention just because one of my things, one of my unique callings is unifying the church. Like unifying denominations and people with different secondary beliefs and political ideologies. Like I am burdened for the church to be unified. It is one of the things that I know down in my soul that the Lord has called me to.

I have to care about unity more than some of you have to care about unity. That's okay. God's made me this way. And what I will say is sometimes, sometimes we, unity comes into question when your calling and my calling are different. And when I'm so passionate about this thing that God's called me to do, and you're so passionate about this thing that God's called you to do, we look at each other as enemies. When in reality, it's our unique gifting for God to have a kingdom expression throughout all the places in the world that are broken. And so like, just like if you're passionate about something over here and somebody else's, I have examples in my head, but I'm afraid to share them.

Yeah, okay. We got you. Thank you. Sometimes our callings will feel. No, let's just do it. Let's do it. I won't get too specific. I'll go middle of the road. Partly specific. Tim Keller. You guys like Tim Keller? All right, cool. He often talked about how historic Christianity has four really core moral values in the world. Two of them tend to fall on the right side of the political spectrum. Two of them tend to fall on the left side of the political spectrum. All I will say is sometimes we have Christians who are so called to a specific area of justice and morality that aligns with the right wing party. And some Christians who are called to be passionate and focused on justice on things that might be better absorbed in one political party. And the reality is we're both doing kingdom work.

And as long as we're not overly identifying with one political party over the other, we're just doing justice for justice sake in the name of Jesus for the kingdom of God, then let's like unify over that. Sound good? All right. Whew. Menu. See, pastors get excited when their illustration works on two levels. I was so pumped. I had April laminate this menu. I'm like, this illustration works not on one level, but on two. Intentionality, right? Sometimes we get so distracted by the overwhelming nature of this that we just don't do anything. And also, because we're so overwhelmed, we're so distracted, we're so busy. And when God offers us an opportunity to serve somebody right in front of us, we can't. Mercer wants to have a conversation with me while I'm looking at the Waffle House menu.

Fat chance, all right? Because I got to figure out what I'm ordering. We can talk after the menu's out of my hand, but before that, nothing. So, secondly, what I want to talk about is how can we, as a people of God, cultivate the value of being interruptible? How can we serve with interruptibility? And I'd love to turn now to Matthew chapter 20 to see another example of Jesus. In John 4, we see Jesus being intentional in his service, that he knows what he's called to do and he's going to go do it, even if it's outside of the realm of cultural acceptance. His disciples are like, why are we going through Samaria? He's like, we have to. We're called to this. Secondly, Jesus models for us vulnerability. No, interruptibility. I mean, vulnerability also, but that's not the point for today.

Okay, Matthew chapter 20, starting in verse 29. As Jesus and his disciples were leaving Jericho, a large crowd followed him. Two blind men were sitting by the roadside, and when they had heard that Jesus was going by, they shouted, "Lord, son of David, have mercy on us." The crowd rebuked them and told them to be quiet, but they shouted all the louder, "Lord, son of David, have mercy on us." Jesus stopped and called them. "What do you want me to do for you?" He asked. "Lord," they answered, "we want our sight." Jesus had compassion on them. And he touched their eyes and immediately they received their sight and followed him. So for some context, this is at like the climax of Jesus' public ministry, just before he's about to march into Jerusalem on the back of a donkey,

hearing the entire nation of Israel saying, "Hosanna, Messiah, save now. Jesus, son of David, have compassion on us." It's funny. I just now, I just really realized that the blind people are saying the thing that the crowd's going to say in just a little bit. They know who Jesus is, they're begging him for mercy. And it's at the climax of his popularity in his earthly ministry, just before his triumphal entry, when he's got places to be and people to see. When he's far busier and on far more of a significant journey than any of us will ever be on, that he is able to be interrupted by two people that the rest of the crowd says ignore them. They're not worth your time. They're not worth your time. You've got too many important things to do.

Jesus, you have places to be and people to see. And yet Jesus is able to, at the height of the speed of his ministry, just moving quickly and the crowds following him and ushering him towards Jerusalem. He's able to be interruptible. He's able to have compassion on these individuals. This word compassion is splachizomai. You say that? Splachizomai. It is a word that typically is only used of Jesus having compassion. It's the one we read about in the parable of the Good Samaritan a few months back, that the Good Samaritan representing Jesus in that parable had compassion on this individual who was left for dead. And Jesus is able to have compassion, a compassion that can keep him from being so preoccupied with the busyness of his day. So preoccupied with his task list that he can't be bothered to help somebody in need.

Jesus flips the script. He shows us that to be truly human is to see image bearers of deserving of dignity and compassion. His heart breaks for them and he dignifies them by having a conversation with them. And not only that, but he heals them in miraculous ways. And I would say that from this passage, we see that just like Jesus sets an example for us to serve with intentionality, he also sets an example for us to serve with interruptibility. And we have to cultivate this attitude. We're not just gonna be easily interruptible. I think many Christians, sorry, I skipped ahead of my notes. I think as Christians, we have unique people or groups of people we are intentionally called to serve. But I also think that these good works prepared in advance that we talked about in Ephesians chapter two, that there are also good works in advance that are just seemingly random acts of kindness done when we are prompted by the Holy Spirit.

But in order for us to be prompted by the Holy Spirit, we have to be listening to the Holy Spirit. In order for us to listen to the Holy Spirit, we have to have some space and some margin in our life. We have to take the AirPods out of our ears. And that is a message directly to me. My wife knows it. I'm not even gonna look over there. We got to take the AirPods out. We don't need to be listening to a podcast 24/7. We got to put the phone down and we have to be interruptible. We have to be able to see people and dignify them. In order for us to hear the Spirit and respond to his invitation, we have to be paying attention. And I think many Christians have been lulled into kingdom uselessness through overactivity.

We try and do all the things the world says we should do. We're in all the sporting events. We're in all the clubs. We're in all the activities. We do all the things the world tells us to do and all the things the church tells us to do. And we're busier than any other human being on our cul-de-sac. And we don't take time to stop and ask what it is that God actually wants us to do. We just get caught up in the tide of the world around us. We're doing everything with our children and with our families and with our communities that the world tells us we're supposed to. And what the church tells us we're supposed to. And we're inactive to serve the way that God might be calling us to serve.

I was on a Zoom call. You guys, we agreed on the tithing extra 10 minutes? Six minutes. Six. Okay, perfect, perfect, perfect. Oh, yeah. That's better math, Gary. Thank you. Six. I got six minutes. Extra six minutes. I got on a call recently with a seminary professor and he was talking about this idea of missional living, intentionally living on mission and being interruptible and being able to serve others. And he was talking to his students and he was like, I wonder what, if you could ask your neighbors what it is they think most defines Christians. Like, what are the things that they would say? And he was just having this hypothetical conversation with them. But one of his students decided that she was going to go to all of her neighbors and tell her it was an assignment, which I love.

I love her intentionality behind that. She's like, I want to know what my neighbors think mostly define Christian values. And so she had lived on the same cul-de-sac with like a bunch of neighbors. They'd all been there for 10 to 15 years. And she went around to each one of them. She was like, hey, you know, I'm a Christian. What is it that you think makes Christianity? Like, what are our values as a Christian family? And she said the overwhelming majority of people said, well, you're really busy. You, like, leave your house way more often than the rest of us do. And I just think, I think that if we're not careful, we're trying to keep up with the Joneses in our culture and we're also trying to do everything the church needs us to do.

And we're just moving at such a fast pace that we don't stop to think, God, is this something that you would be inviting me to do? Or is this something that I'm just doing because I think it makes me a good parent or a good spouse or a good friend or a good neighbor or coworker or whatever? What is it that God is calling us to do? In order for us to do this, we've got to be slowing down a little bit. I love Dallas Willard's quote. You guys, many of you have probably heard this. Someone asked him, what do I need to, what is the most important thing for me to do to become the person that God is calling me to be? Dallas Willard took a deep breath and he said, you must ruthlessly eliminate hurry from your life.

Talked about if the devil can't get you to sin, he'll just keep you busy. That oftentimes we miss out on opportunities to serve because we're too busy. Our life just moves too quickly. I just want to remind us this morning that the idea of being conformed to the image of Jesus isn't just about sinning less, but it's about obeying more. And we cannot obey the invitations that we haven't heard. And how will we hear the invitations if we are not listening? Just think that maybe, just maybe we're missing out on some obedience to Jesus because we're not listening for his invitation to the prompting of the Holy Spirit. And again, you're going to walk out the door today and you're going to live your life this next week. And there will be so many opportunities for you to serve interruptibly that if you took the every opportunity to serve interruptibly,

you would not fulfill the duties of your life. And so I'm not saying you have to do everything. When we did the parables series, there's a scholar by the name of Klein Snodgrass. We got all kinds of cool names today. And he talked about this idea of the New Testament being an identity book, not a guidebook. So when the New Testament talks to us about being interruptibly or serving with interruptibility, it's not saying that every time you're interrupted with the need, you have to serve. It's saying that Christians are a people who are interruptible and who serve interruptibly. I nailed that, by the way. Thank you. Okay. So I think the same thing, listening to the Holy Spirit, asking God to reveal to us the opportunities he's invited us to step into and serve and do so by the power of his spirit.

Not for credit, not so we can put it on social media, but so that we can dignify other human beings, so we can do the thing that Jesus did for these blind people. He had compassion on them and he miraculously healed them. We have a message, the gospel, that can do far more than just heal a blind person. It can give them eternal life. Are we having compassion on people and taking the message of Jesus with them? All right, next Venn diagram.

So I think when it comes to cultivating interruptibility, I want you to, this week, just take some time with this Venn diagram and think about these three areas of your life, your home, your church, your vocation, whatever that might be. And make a list of things that you invest time in in these three areas. What takes up most of your time while you're at home? What are the things that take up most of your time, the things that you're involved in at church? What are the regular activities and rhythms of just being a part of a church community? And what are the things that are going on at work or your vocation, whatever that might be. And make a list. And as you look at the list, think about, are there anything, are there any of these things on the list that I could take off?

Are there any of these things on the list that I'm just doing because I feel like I'm supposed to, but actually like I really don't need to do it? Are there any things on the list that you need to do, but you could do less of? And notice, I'm just going to, I'm going to pat myself on the back really quickly. You are hearing from a pastor on stage at a church that maybe you might be called to do less things at church. Have you heard that before? It's really hard for me to say. I got to be honest with you because I'd love for you to do more stuff here. But maybe, just maybe you're doing too much in this building and you're not interruptible outside of this building with the kingdom of God.

Like most of us in here already have the kingdom of God. So if we're so busy, so preoccupied with a group of people that already have the kingdom of God that we can't be interruptible outside, then maybe we're doing too much inside. What can you do less of? And if you make this list and you're like a hyper proactive type A person and you're like, nah, I'm actually well balanced and I'm interruptible. Do me a favor and turn on your screen time settings and give someone else that trust access to your screen time. And then we'll figure that that's the amount of time that you have that you could be interruptible if you want it to be. Sound good? That was, anyway. All right, to recap. Christ sets an example for us. And this is like the foundation of all of it.

If we got lost in the practicality of how to serve with intentionality and how to serve with interruptibility, I want to come back and land the plane with this. That Jesus went before us and did this for us. This is the gospel of Jesus. The incarnation of Christ shows us that Jesus was interruptible for us at just the right time. He stepped down from heaven to do the will of the Father, to go to the cross, to die on behalf of us for our sins, to raise from the dead. Promising us new life and a future kingdom that is eternal. The actions of Christ show us that he was interruptible and that he was intentional. The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many.

This is the foundation of all of it. Us serving intentionally and with interruptibility is just the practical ramifications of what Jesus has already done for us. And so first and foremost, I want us to make sure that we understand who it is Jesus is and what it is that he's done for us. Because he isn't asking you to do anything he hasn't done for you already. And he isn't asking you to do anything that he won't be with you in as you do it. And he isn't asking you to do anything that he won't empower you to do by his Holy Spirit. And he isn't even asking you to care about the results because the results are in his hands, not yours. He's just asking you to step out with intentionality, to follow his example.

His example is what it means to be a real human. If we want life and flourishing, we follow the example of Jesus because he is the one true human. Perfect, spotless, sinless. The gospel isn't just about blessing the blessings we receive, but it's also about the invitations that we receive. And Jesus has invited us to follow his example to serve. So let's take some time this week with your notes and your bulletin. Pray through these Venn diagrams. Think about what it is that God might be asking you to do or not do. And the reality is it won't, it will likely not be something massive. It will likely just be a daily invitation to listen and participate with the Holy Spirit. I love this quote from Mother Teresa. It sums this whole thing up. She says, God loves us.

That's the gospel. God loves you. He doesn't love you for what you can do for him. He just loves you. And because he loves you, we have the opportunity to love others as he loves us. Not in big things, but in small things done with great love. As the band come up, I think the song we ended with is a good reminder. That Christ has set for us an example. That he's gone before us and that he invites us to follow. I love this line, my one life endeavor to match your surrender. To mirror not my will, but yours. May this not be just a song that we sing, but it may be a lifestyle. That we look to the example of Jesus who was interrupted on our behalf. Who was intentional to come, to die, to raise, and to ascend.

May everything we do flow out of a desire to follow his surrender. Let's respond to Christ's example this morning in worship. Amen. Amen. Amen.
