RUTH: God Keeps His Promises
2025-04-14
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F-iBLtBEEdg

Music.

Every week, there's always one of them. So glad you all are here with us this morning as we conclude our series on the book of Ruth. I hope you all have been enjoying this incredible, short story of God's redemption in the Old Testament. It's been a rollercoaster of emotions. Some would say we find ourselves in a glass case of emotions. That's a deep cut. I don't know if anybody gets the reference, but if you get it, let me know later. We've walked through this tragic story of suffering in the lives of two widows. Week by week, we've begun to see God's redemption working out in their lives through the interesting part of, one of the most interesting parts of the book to me is that God's redemption primarily comes through the obedience of faithful people,

living out God's love in the world. We particularly see it through Boaz, a man of generosity who regularly demonstrates his love for God and love for neighbor in the lives of Ruth and Naomi. This week, we will come to the final cliffhanger. Our author is very good at giving us glimpses of redemption, bringing us to a point where we think we're going to see God do the thing we've been expecting him to do, only to find out we have to wait another week. And this week, redemption will come to its final resolution. It is a beautiful redemption with massive implications for each one of our lives, I think, if we let it sit with us and marinate in our hearts. Remember, the book of Ruth is, it's not just a story about Ruth and Naomi, but it's the story of the whole Bible told in four chapters,

in four characters, in three characters in four chapters. I will get it eventually. Give me a second. It's a story about one family's redemption, but it's also the story about our redemption, about how God works to bring about redemption in our lives, and essentially, ultimately, how God brings about redemption throughout the whole world. Not only are we finishing the book of Ruth today, but as the children so beautifully illustrate it for us, it is Palm Sunday. And Palm Sunday is the day where we remember Jesus riding into Jerusalem on the back of a donkey, surrounded by a crowd, a momentous crowd cheering Hosanna, meaning Messiah, Savior, saved now. They were ready for a revolution. They were ready for Jesus to be a conquering king, to overthrow Rome, and to bring Israel back to its rightful place in the world.

And yet, less than a week later, individuals from that same crowd will turn their cheering of Hosanna, Messiah, saved now, to crucify him. And I hope to weave that theme throughout our story in Ruth chapter 4 this morning. So, let's pray and get started. Abba in heaven.

You are our good father. Your love for us looks reckless by any standard of mathematical equation, of profit-loss analysis that we could do in our heads. And yet, you continue to give yourself away for us. The ultimate sacrifice, offering your one and only son, Jesus' faithful obedience to the cross. His heartfelt tears for his countrymen who he came to redeem and yet chose to reject him. His heartfelt tears for each one of us, God, inviting us to receive his redemption, to come into his love. God, not because we have earned it or could deserve it in any way, God, but because he freely gives it to us as a gift. May we sit with that love this morning. May we understand that love in deeper ways. And God, if any of us have come into this room not yet receiving it, not yet understanding it,

if we've come into this room with bitterness, anger, mourning, pain, suffering, God, may we see for the first time with fresh eyes how gracious and how loving you are to us. God, get glory for yourself through this time today. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So like I said, we see the story. We're going to recap for those of you that maybe have missed some of the weeks. We see Ruth and Naomi suffering at the beginning of chapter one and their redemption begins in chapter two when Ruth finds herself by the providence of God gleaning in Boaz's field. She makes a bold ask of him that far exceeds anything that the law of God would require of him to do for her. And he responds to her bold request with even bolder generosity. These widows go from being on the verge of starving to death, not knowing if they were going to make it another week,

to having a bit of financial stability. And that is our kind of cliffhanger number one. Chapter two ends with us finding out that Boaz is also a close relative of Naomi and has the potential, he has the potential to be the kinsman redeemer of their family. This could provide not just financial stability, not just financial redemption for them, but a secured hope for their future, giving them a secure home to live in and to find safety and to renew their identity in the nation of Israel. In chapter three, Naomi encourages Ruth to go out on a limb and make an even bolder request of Boaz. She essentially wants Ruth to propose to Boaz in the middle of the field at night with some weird tactics that we talked about last week. I'm glad you guys enjoyed that.

Ruth took that ask even a step further. And she asked Boaz not just to marry her, but to fulfill this role of kinsman redeemer, not just for her, but for Naomi, and to restore their family line, not just providing financial stability in a secured future, but also the redemption of their family line and lineage. In Israel's eschatology, this would be the equivalent of eternal redemption for Naomi's husband and sons. And I don't want to miss this point because I know there are people in the room who have been praying for the salvation of a child for a long time. You've been praying for the salvation of a family member, a loved one, and that moment that you would get to witness them stand before a group of people and proclaim their faith in Jesus through baptism.

Many of us have been praying for that for many people for a long time. And that essentially is the ultimate goal of the kinsman redeemer in the Jewish eschatology. See, in the Jewish eschatology, if the lineage stopped, if the genealogy ceased to go forward because the family member had no sons to move forward, it was like their eternity was in question. I got this quote from a commentary. Robert Hubbard says this, And so we see this redemption story is not just about physical, temporary redemption on earth, but for Ruth and Naomi, it was about an eternal redemption for them and for their family lineage. Boaz is not just providing physical redemption for them. He's providing eternal redemption for them. And yet again, we see that this story isn't just about Ruth and Naomi, but it's about all of us and how God is working redemption in our lives through the midst of our suffering,

not just temporary earthly redemption, but eternal redemption through the grace of Jesus. At this point in the story, Boaz seems to be pretty into Ruth, eager to fulfill his role for her and Naomi, which would ultimately lead to, like I said, not just physical redemption, not just a hope for the future, but eternal redemption for their entire family line. And just when we think we're going to get the happy ending that we've been waiting for, the kiss that seems to just be right there, we have another cliffhanger. I was watching, I remember a couple of weeks ago, Merce and I were watching a chick flick, a rom-com. I don't remember what it was. Don't ask me. Don't judge me. But it just felt like the kiss that was supposed to happen kept taking too long.

It's like, you know, like they're like in a spot where it should happen, eyes are, and then something happens. And then later, and literally by the end, it would be like an hour and 45 minutes into the movie. And I looked at Merce and I was like, are they ever going to kiss? Like, what are we doing? This is what I've been waiting for. And that's where we're at in the book of Ruth. It's like time after time we see like, oh, is this going to happen? This is going to happen. Not again, another cliffhanger. And that's where we end it last week. There's another cliffhanger. Boaz is eager to fulfill the role of kinsman redeemer for Ruth and Naomi. He's eager to marry this girl that he essentially, from what we can gather in the text,

has fallen in love with. And yet there's a closer kinsman redeemer than Boaz. And Boaz knows that if he doesn't go about this the right way, if he doesn't follow the law, if he doesn't give this other kinsman redeemer the opportunity to redeem, then it's possible that they could get married. And the elders of the town could come back and say, no, this marriage is not valid. It's not legal. And so Boaz wants to do everything he can to do it right. So Ruth goes back to Naomi. She tells Naomi all of the things that happened. And Naomi ends chapter three by saying, wait, my daughter, until you find out what happens, for this man will not rest until the matter is settled. That's where we pick up in chapter four, starting in verse one, if you want to read along with me.

Let me see how many verses I'm supposed to read. Okay. Meanwhile, Boaz went up to the town gate. I love that term, meanwhile, because it shows immediate action from Boaz. He is not waiting around. He is ready to make this thing happen. Meanwhile, as Ruth and Naomi are at home early in the morning, recapping what happened in the weird feet exposing story in chapter three, Boaz is already on the move to make this redemption happen. Boaz went to the town gate. This is where all of the legal matters would happen. This is where everybody passed through. It's the easiest way to find somebody and get something done. He goes to the town gate. He sat down there and listen to this. Just as he got there, the guardian redeemer he had mentioned came along. Can we again see God's providence working in the background of this story?

Yes, human beings are participating in God's redemption plan, but God is at work behind the scenes. And how often is our God at work behind the scenes? And how often do we fail to see how our God is at work behind the scenes bringing about redemption? God is bringing about redemption through participation with his faithful people. The guardian redeemer that Boaz is looking for just happens to be there right at the moment Boaz gets there. And he says, come over here, my friend, and sit down. So he went over and sat down and Boaz took 10 of the elders of the town and he said, sit here. And they did so. Then he said to the guardian redeemer, Naomi, who has come back from Moab, is selling the piece of land that belonged to our relative Elimelech.

I nailed that, by the way. Thank you. I thought I should bring the matter to your attention and suggest that you buy it in the presence of these seated here and in the presence of the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, do so. But if you will not, tell me so I will. For no one has the right to do it except for you. And I am in the next. I am the next in line. And so we feel this tension. Ruth, Boaz, the kiss we've all been waiting for. We essentially, the author has set it up so that we just have to go through maybe one more hurdle, one more obstacle, and then it's going to happen. And what do we hear from this guardian redeemer getting in the way of our love story we've

been promised? I will redeem it, he said. Now, you guys didn't read ahead, right? So we're going to sit in the tension together. Boaz is proactive. He's motivated by love to secure Naomi's redemption and Ruth's hand in marriage, and he's motivated to do it the right way. He acts immediately. God's hand of providence is working behind the scenes, which is the main theme of the book. Participation with God's people and God's providence in the back. God's fingerprints are all over the redemption story of Ruth and Naomi. So Boaz arranges an official legal proceeding to happen. This is very much a legal court proceeding. Some of you in the room have been part of those. This is official business in the nation of Israel that is happening. But before we get into the specifics of the legal transactions that are happening, I want

to set a backdrop for us to understand exactly the roles that are at play for Boaz and for this potential guardian redeemer and the cost and risk that is associated with playing this part. Because being a Goel, being a kinsman redeemer was not just an easy, like, check the box, yeah, I'll do it kind of thing. There was cost associated. This was a sacrificial act of love. No matter what the situation was, for you to act as Goel, for you to act as a kinsman redeemer, you were taking on risk to your own personal financial situation. And what we're going to see as we get into the specifics of the legal proceeding is there's actually two legal roles that are being brought out in the text. It's not just the Goel, it's not just the kinsman redeemer who could redeem the land for

the close relative, but it's actually another role that we see laid out in Deuteronomy chapter 25 called the leveret marriage. And the leveret marriage was actually only, in the book of Deuteronomy, it's only applied to a bloodline brother living in the same household. And this is the role where if a husband died, then the brother, the next brother living in the house would marry his widow so that they could perpetuate this line, right? Because the line was so important in Israelite eschatology, in their place in the family line. They had been given plots of land, and if their names ceased to exist from the lineage, then they had no inheritance in the land in the future. And so this is, we're going to see another role that Boaz is going to invite the guardian redeemer to play on behalf of Ruth and Naomi, even though, as we'll talk about in a little bit,

nowhere in the Old Testament law does it seem to require that this would be a role for the redeemer to fulfill. He's not a brother living in the household. This law does not apply to him at all. So let's unpack both of these roles really quickly. Goel is found in Leviticus 25. And if you were to read the whole chapter of Leviticus 25, which I would encourage you to do if you have the time this week. But if you were to read Leviticus 25, you would see that when God gave Israel the land, he very clearly said, this is my land. I'm giving it to you as stewards. All of creation is mine, but I'm inviting you to participate with me in stewarding your creation, my creation. He set up a very clear system that would keep anyone from gaining generational wealth.

The land and the wealth was to be shared. And if anyone fell on hard times, they could sell their land, but it was meant to be a temporary sale just to get them back on their feet. And it would be returned to the family who sold it during the year of Jubilee. Every 50 years, there was a year of Jubilee where all the land that had gotten sold would be redeemed or be brought back into the family lineage. All people who have had to sell themselves into slavery would be set free. This was a constant reminder that the God of Israel is the God who sets people free. That the God of Israel is the God who wants to see all people flourish, who wants to see abundant life for all of the people that would come to find refuge under him.

And so there was really no way to get super rich in the nation of Israel if you were following the laws of Israel. So this close family member could redeem the land, but as you can imagine, in an agrarian culture that was discouraged from accumulating generational wealth, the cost to redeem your relative's land would likely come at a sacrifice to your own estate and the potential risk of even losing your own estate. Being a Goel required sacrificial love and a level of risk. And usually only a small upside for you, because again, you're purchasing this land, but only for a short period of time before the next year of Jubilee when it would be returned. And so yeah, you might be able to get a little bit of extra income for you and for your family depending on how long it is before the next year of Jubilee,

but you're taking on risk and sacrifice to redeem your family member. And this is built into the Old Testament law that God is saying, what I want for my people is for you to take care of one another, for you to love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. All of God's laws and commands are summed up in these two things. And we can see it all throughout the Old Testament that this is what God wants for his people, sacrificial love on behalf of those who are vulnerable and who are struggling and who are in need. Being a Goel would require sacrificial love. The Leveret marriage, on the other hand, is like another step forward, a leap forward in sacrificial love. Because if you were to become a Leveret husband, you'd have more mouths to feed.

The first son that you would produce would be not your heir, but the heir of your deceased brother. And so you're having a child that you're not going to be able to give the inheritance to, but they're going to take some of the inheritance from your children. And so the potential of your inheritance to be divided even further. The combination of these two roles, to be both Goel and a Leveret husband, is incredibly sacrificial. A tremendous act of selfless, sacrificial love that would come at great risk to the one taking responsibility. Which is why it's crazy. It's not even required of this guardian redeemer in this situation. And so what Boaz is going to suggest is that he wants to go above and beyond, exceedingly abundantly more than what Naomi and Ruth could ask of him.

He's going to demonstrate the sacrificial love of God to take care of them. Some might even call a person who would be willing to do both the Goel and the Leveret marriage. Some might even refer to that love that they're demonstrating as reckless. Saying about that this morning. Which is why, all of these things considered, it seems a bit odd that Boaz's plan is to unpack the most, the easiest part of the law, right? Goel, it is sacrificial love. It is difficult. It is risky. But at the same time, it's relatively easy in comparison to the Leveret marriage. And so it's interesting, if Boaz really wanted to marry Ruth, if this was his goal, if this was his desire, then why at the beginning of these legal proceedings, for my lawyers in the room, why would he start with like the easiest thing and say, here, just redeem the land?

This is your right. This is your, it's a puzzling, puzzling way to go about the proceedings. And as we read, the guy's like, hey, this is easy. This is, this is a no brainer for me. I will redeem Naomi. I will redeem her land. The close relative doesn't even hesitate to agree to perform the actions of Goel, of guardian redeemer for Naomi. Yes, it was an act of sacrificial love, but it was the best case scenario for a guardian redeemer. Because in his mind, Naomi is past childbearing age, relatively old, probably not going to live for that long. And she has no heir. So what that means is he's going to get the land. And then when the year of Jubilee comes, there's nobody to give that land back to. So it's his now. He gets to keep the land.

And so although it is an act of sacrificial love, this situation in particular, in his mind, is a no brainer. He's going to just keep Naomi alive for a couple of years, and he is going to inherit her land forever. I don't know how long. I don't know how old she is. Leave me alone. You guys are, come on now. Whew, I'm sweating. The legacy team is going to be sending me emails in the morning. How long do you think we're going to live? Modern medicine is a wonderful thing. Okay, all right, I got to get out of here. Let's move on. This is where, in verse 5, we see Boaz likely catching everyone off guard. Let's read it in verse 5 after this guardian redeemer, who we don't know his name yet. We'll come back to that.

He says, of course I'll redeem it. No problem. Then Boaz said, on the day you buy the land from Naomi, you will also acquire Ruth the Moabite, the foreigner, the person who comes from a land that worships a God that is totally in opposition to the God of our people. You will acquire Ruth the Moabite, the dead man's widow, in order to maintain the name of the dead with his property. So now he's inviting this person to become a leveret husband. Not only do you have to redeem the land, but you have to marry Ruth, and you have to produce a son for her so that that son can take the lineage of Elimelech, and then that name will be restored to the genealogy so that Naomi's family has land and inheritance for the future and eternal redemption.

Now, in earlier times, again, Israel and feet, we're gonna find out is weird, but in earlier times for the redemption and transfer of property to become final, one party took off his sandal and gave it to the other. That was the method of legalizing transactions in Israel. Can I just say, I'm so glad that we now have different ways to ratify legal terms. I don't wanna take off my shoe and give it to anybody. So the guardian redeemer said to Boaz, buy it yourself. He removed his sandal, relinquishing his right to be the guardian redeemer for Naomi. Then Boaz announced to the elders and all the people, here's the kiss we're waiting for. Today, you are witnesses that I have bought from Naomi all the property of Elimelech, Kilion, and Malon. He's redeeming their name.

He's in the process of bringing the redemption back to their name. I have also acquired Ruth the Moabite, Malon's widow, as my wife, in order to maintain the name of the dead with his property so that his name will not disappear from among his family or from his hometown. Today, you are witnesses.

This is where Boaz catches everyone off guard. He adds the responsibility of a Levite marriage to Ruth in the negotiation. Nowhere in the Old Testament would it require the Goel to marry Ruth and provide her a son, especially since she's a foreigner with absolutely no relation to the Goel at all. Boaz, I think, is taking a page that he has learned from Ruth over the past few months. He's inviting the kinsman redeemer to look past the letter of the law and see the spirit of the law. This is Sermon on the Mount type stuff. This is radical. Some might even call reckless, sacrificial love for the sake of another. Someone who doesn't deserve it, couldn't earn it, and will never pay it back. Boaz essentially puts this man in an impossible situation. What he has done is he's laid out for the elders and for the witnesses.

He's demonstrated to them how easy of an ask it is for this man to become the Goel. He said, look, Naomi, she's an older widow, past childbearing ages, with no heir. This man is essentially saying, yeah, I'll take care of her for a couple of years so that I can have her land. He's exposing before all of the elders how easy of a transaction he's inviting this guy to. And then he's saying, but what I am willing to do, I'm the next closest in line, and what I'm willing to do is far beyond what the law asks of me. I am willing to sacrificially love Naomi and Ruth to provide physical redemption for them, to provide eternal redemption for the lineage of their family. This is what I am willing to do. And he pushes this guy in the corner because at this point, he can't say, whoa, whoa, whoa.

Let's get into the legalities of how the law works. I'm not obligated to do any of that. Then he looks like a total buffoon in front of all of the people of the city. And Boaz is saying, I am willing to go beyond. I am willing to demonstrate love of God and love of neighbor in this situation in a way that would cost me greatly.

They've realized how little of a sacrifice the redemption would be for Naomi and the upside this guardian redeemer would receive. And now Boaz is offering to do significantly more. Our redeemer, who we don't know the name of, does a quick cost-benefit analysis and bows out. He says, there's no way I can take on that sacrifice. You're crazy for taking on that sacrifice. That could risk your entire estate. That could risk all of your land. You're insane for even thinking about doing it. This Goel, this redeemer, who we don't know the name of yet, we'll come back to. I keep hinting at that. So pay attention. It's a breadcrumb. This is a wise decision he's making based on earthly calculations. If we're just looking at the earthly metrics, if we're just looking at his financial situation, he's making a wise situation.

But he's missing out on the spiritual calculations. He's been invited to participate in God's plan of eternal redemption. And he's opted out in order to secure his own earthly estate. I'm reminded of the words of Jesus. Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you. I don't think this guy's a bad guy. I don't want to go over the top to condemn his actions. But what I do want us to realize is that out of a desire to preserve his earthly blessings, he missed out on a tremendous eternal blessing. We don't know his name because his name is not listed. But the one clue we get from the author about what the author wants us to think about this person is in verse one. When Boaz sees him coming through, it says the guardian redeemer.

Boaz says to him, come over here, my friend, and sit down. The Hebrew, the literal Hebrew for that phrase, my friend, is old so-and-so. Come over here, you old so-and-so. And I think the reason the author does that is she doesn't want to put this guy on public blast, but she wants the reader to realize that prioritizing the physical means missing out on something far greater. She wants us to realize that his name is not being written down in redemptive history because he chose the lesser thing when he had an invitation to the greater thing. This reminds me of a conversation Jesus has with what our Bibles would title the rich young ruler. Coming to Jesus and saying, what do I need to do to inherit eternal life? Follow the commandments. I've done that. Sell everything you have and give to the poor.

I think the invitation to God's kingdom, the invitation to participate in his eternal redemption plan often takes far more sacrifice than we're willing to give. And since it's Palm Sunday, I think it also connects us to the crowds in Jerusalem. As Jesus rides in on a donkey, they were ready for God's salvation. They were ready to be a part of God's redemption plan as long as it didn't cost them anything and as long as they could see the immediate benefit for themselves. They thought Jesus was coming in to conquer Rome and they were ready. But once they realized that in order to follow Christ, the Christ, the Messiah that came on the back of a donkey, it meant laying down your life to follow him. They changed their minds.

And I think many of us in this room today and many just kind of the cultural current of Christianity in America today tends to treat the Christian walk like Mr. So-and-so, like the rich young ruler, like the Palm Sunday crowd. We want to be a part of what God is doing as long as it doesn't require much sacrifice on our part and as long as we can see an immediate benefit for ourselves.

How often, how often do I engage with God's invitation to his kingdom in this way? Well, how much sacrifice is it going to cost me? What type of reward will I get? Will people see me and think I'm great because I did this sacrificial thing that didn't cost me that much? Yes, God's redemption is a free gift. It can't be earned. But in order to pick it up, we've got to lay down what we're holding. Faith in Jesus isn't a costless prayer. We pray to invite Jesus into our hearts. It's laying down our old life in order to receive an altogether new life. It requires death. But the new life that Christ offers leads to an abundant life far beyond anything our old life could ever have given us. This is the beautiful exchange of the gospel.

Yes, we have to lay down what we have in our hands, but the thing that we have in our hands could never give us the thing that we wanted it to give us. What we need to do is put it down to receive the new life that we have been offered freely in Jesus, to receive his grace and his mercy and his love. It leads to far more abundance than we could ever have by pursuing earthly things. Seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. I go back to Ken's message from Ruth 1. It's exactly what Ruth did in chapter 1 when she turned her back on Moab in order to pursue Yahweh. She laid down her old life. She said no to her past.

She said no to everything that was calling her back, the invitation to just go back to your old life. She repented. She said no to all of it in order to pursue Yahweh. Going back to Moab would likely have been easier and definitely more comfortable, but she would have missed out on the redemption that only the one true God can provide. The words of Jesus, if you want to follow me, you must deny yourself, take up your cross, and follow me. If you seek to save your life, you'll lose it. But if you lose your life for my sake, you'll find it. Old so-and-so shows us the consequences of this decision, a safe and secure life where no one remembers your name. Meanwhile, we are still talking about Boaz to this day because he chose to lay down his life for the sake of others.

This is the invitation to the kingdom of God. Lay down your life to receive a whole other new life that's far better than anything you could have come up with on your own. Be invited to participate in God's kingdom work, taking care of the widow, the orphan, those in need. Boaz is a pretty good lawyer, if you ask me. He negotiated this situation in a way that led to him getting the thing that he wanted to do in the first place. The elders witnessed this in verse 11 and 12, and they pray a blessing over him in this new marriage. They ratify the legal action that has been taken. The elders and all the people at the gate said, May the Lord make the woman who is coming into your home like Rachel and Leah,

who together built up the family of Israel. May you have standing in the Paphra. I can't do that one very well. I failed. I'm not even gonna try. All right. I nailed a Limelech. I will not nail a Paphra. And be famous in Bethlehem. Through the offspring the Lord gives you by this young woman. May your family be like that of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah. So the elders see this incredible faith in Yahweh demonstrated through the actions of both Ruth and Boaz. They ratify the redemption. They ratify the redemption in the marriage and cap off the legal proceedings with a prayer of blessing for the newlyweds and their newly established family. A lot could be said about this powerful prayer. First, they look back to the matriarchs of the nation of Rachel and Leah.

Showing the incredible radical inclusion for Ruth as a foreigner. Reminding Boaz that his bold faith and sacrificial love will not soon go forgotten. Ruth is included in the names of the Israelite matriarchs. They're saying God is a God who radically welcomes those who want to pursue him by faith. And just like the nation of Israel is never going to forget the names of Leah and Rachel, the elders are saying, may our nation, may our people, may we never forget the name of Ruth. Who showed radical sacrificial love to leave her homeland and to come and to take care of Naomi and to participate with Boaz in this incredible act of sacrificial love.

It's a reminder that God has a track record of fulfilling his promises to his people. Abraham left everything based on a promise of God to build a nation. And Rachel and Leah are a testimony that God continues to be faithful to his promises. That God will continue to bring about redemption even when we can't see it. Even when it looks like all hope is lost. That God continues to remain faithful to his promises if his people will continue to pursue him in faith. And even when we don't, he gets through that and continues to bring about redemption. That's what Judah and Tamar are all about. God has a track record of fulfilling his promises to his people. I've been jamming to a worship song lately called Time and Time Again. And the lyrics that I love, I think, remind us of this truth.

He says, you'll come through now like you did back then. Time and time and time again. And by looking back to Leah and Rachel, the elders are essentially saying our God is faithful to keep his promises. That God has come through in the past and he's going to continue to come through. And now us on this side of the resurrection. How much more do we get to look back and see how God has been faithful to us in the midst of all of our brokenness and rebellion. That God continues to remain faithful to his promises. This radical act of sacrificial love that Boaz is participating in is not a blind act of faith that is not rooted in any reality. He can look back in the story of Israel and see how God is faithful to those who remain obedient to him.

He says, yes, this redemption is coming a great sacrifice to me, but I can trust Yahweh who owns the land. Everything is his. I will not go hungry by obeying him. He comes back over and over. He comes through time and time again. And that is when we are invited to sacrificially lay down our life to follow Jesus. It's not a blind act of faith that is not rooted in the confidence of the past. We can look back to God's faithfulness in the past. Over and over and over again, he's been faithful in my life and in your life. And throughout human history, the God of the universe has been faithful to keep his promises. And so when he invites us to lay down our life and seek first his kingdom, it's an invitation that, yes, requires sacrifice, but we get far greater reward.

It's a spiritual reward. It's not always an earthly reward, but if we're just doing earthly calculations, we're going to miss out on what God's invitation ultimately leads us to. The prayer concludes with the mention of Tamar and Judah, which we referenced last week. It's a testimony that God gets redemption done even when his people rebel against his invitation. It's a reminder that this new family is in the line of the promised Messiah. The Messiah would come through the line of Judah. The seed of the woman that was promised in Genesis 3, we get clarity that that seed, the more we progress through the nation of Israel, the more clarity we get about the Messiah and where he will come from. We know that it will come through the line of Judah. Every time a new baby was born to this family line, there was a possibility of Israel's promised Messiah coming.

This is a great foreshadowing as we move towards the conclusion of our story, which as we get there, I'll invite the worship team to come up. It might be a while, so take your time, but we're headed there. So verse 13, as the story comes to a conclusion, we're going to see all of the threads of redemption being tied. So Boaz took Ruth. She became his wife. When he made love to her, I forgot a PG-13 warning on this week's message, sorry. The Lord enabled her to conceive. She gave birth to a son. This is a gift of God. The woman said to Naomi, praise be to the Lord, who this day has not left you without a guardian redeemer. May he become famous throughout Israel. He will renew your life and sustain you in your old age.

For your daughter-in-law who loves you is better to you than seven sons has given him birth. Then Naomi took the child in her arms and cared for him. The women living there said, Naomi has a son. They named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David. The story shifts from a legal proceeding to a baby being handed to Naomi. The same women who witnessed her come back from Moab empty-handed with no land, no food, no sons, and no hope. The women who said, could this be Naomi? And she said, don't call me Naomi. Don't call me sweet. Call me bitter. For the Lord has dealt difficultly with me. I'm empty-handed. I have nothing. These women who get to witness rock bottom for Naomi are the same women who get to see this baby be handed to her.

This is the first time, this is the only time in Scripture that the word go out, guardian redeemer, is used of a child. They place the baby in his hand. This baby will be your redeemer. This baby will redeem your family lineage.

She now has food, land, a son, and a secure hope for the future. I have to imagine the Hebrew of Hebrews, the Apostle Paul, had this story in mind when he penned the words, and we know that in all things, God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purposes. He'll come through now like he did back then. Time and time and time and time again. It's not always pretty. It's not always easy. I don't want to erase the pain that Naomi suffered throughout her story. I don't want to erase the pain that each one of you in this room have suffered throughout your stories. We live in a broken world, and all of us will experience pain, loss, and injustice. But it's important to remember that this world is broken, not because God broke it, but because we broke it.

And yet in our brokenness, he continues to extend his hand towards us and invite us into his redemption. And I'm afraid that sometimes when we suffer, we are quick to blame God and attack him for allowing it to happen. And when he brings redemption to our lives, we are slow to give him credit. I read this quote yesterday. It's a late addition to my outline, so it's probably from the Holy Spirit. Take that as it might.

It is God who ought to suffer, not you and me, says those who bear a grudge against God for the unfairness of their lives. The curse word expresses it well, God be damned. And on that day, God was damned. The cross that held Jesus' body naked and marked with scars exposed all the violence and injustice of this world. At once, the cross revealed what kind of world we have and what kind of God we have. A world of gross unfairness and a God of sacrificial love. Naomi's redemption on this side of eternity is the example of the abundant life God offers each of us. We will experience suffering and pain and loss, but if we trust him in the midst of it, he will redeem it for good in the end. How will we respond when suffering falls upon us?

Will we numb the pain, blame God, ignore it? Or will we cling to him in the midst of it? I love the emphasis of these women, these witnesses to Naomi's final redemption. They give God all the credit for it. And I don't know about you, but if you've read the book, it could have been really easy to say, praise be to Boaz, who is faithful, who is kind, who is generous, who is sacrificial. But no, they give God all the credit. Praise be to Yahweh, who on this day has not left you without a guardian redeemer. We've talked a lot in this series about human participation, and the author intentionally leaves God's activity relatively absent from the book. But in the end, Yahweh is the ultimate redeemer. We're invited to participate, but he is the author and perfecter of our salvation.

This is the story of divine and human partnership. And it's not just the story about Ruth, Boaz, and Naomi. It's the story of our lives, and it's the story of the whole Bible. We've been invited to participate in God's redemption plan. And he is faithful, and he will get redemption done. But we get the beauty of participating in it if we just lay down what's in our hands to say yes to what he's offered. Boaz partnered with God to redeem Ruth and Naomi through a radical, some might even say reckless, act of sacrificial love.

But Boaz, remember, is just a shadow meant to point us to Jesus, who is ultimately our kinsman, redeemer, and leveret husband. He joined our family. Remember, these laws, they apply to family members. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, joined our family by laying down his divinity to become fully human. Motivated by love, he did not have to, he chose to. Boaz did not have to, he chose to. Jesus, motivated by love, took on human flesh. And just like Boaz's plan looked a little bit foolish, giving this guy the easy way out, did not Jesus' plan look a little bit foolish? Palms waving. Messiah come in power. Come in the way of culture. Come with vengeance. No. Came with sacrificial love. Not a sword, but a cross. Came to redeem the land. Heaven will come back to earth.

He came to restore our suffering and he came to give us a hope for the future. And he took us as his bride, Jesus. The ultimate kinsman, redeemer, and leveret husband. He provides redemption. This is the overwhelming, never-ending, reckless love of God. We couldn't earn it. We don't deserve it. And we can't pay him back for it. It's a free gift. But in order to receive it, we've got to lay down our old lives, our old definitions of good, and our old hopes and dreams, trusting that his are better.

I just want to sit with the emotional reality of what Jesus has done for us. So I don't know about you, but for me, it's an occupational hazard. I sit in an office and read commentaries and old, dead people all the time, talking about how much God loves me. And it's beautiful. It's such a privilege.

But for those of us who have grown up in the church, for those of us who spend time reading, who spend time studying, who spend time thinking, it's really easy for the love of God to just be a thought in my head. It's really easy for me to just think about new and creative ways to talk to you about how much God loves you. And I realized this week as I was studying and as I was preparing, I don't sit with the love of God enough. I don't let him wash over me with his great, great love. Some might even call it reckless, laying down his divinity to become human. A man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, nowhere to lay his head. For you, for me, this isn't a theological concept to agree with in your mind.

This is a person. See, we resonate so much with love stories. We think about Boaz and Ruth. We can feel the love in the story. But then oftentimes when we talk about God, it just becomes these theological ideas. The love of God is not a theological idea.

He loves you. He loves you. He laid down his life for you. And he's inviting you to receive that love, to reciprocate that love, to participate with him as he extends that love to those around you.

Laying down our lives to receive his salvation is just the beginning. We're invited to continually lay down our lives for the sake of others so that God's redemption might come to earth as it is in heaven. We are invited to not just receive his reckless love, but like Boaz, demonstrate that reckless love to those around us. We are invited to seek first his kingdom, even when the math doesn't add up.

There's going to be opportunities for us all throughout the week where people are in need of a hug, a smile, a kind word, a prayer, an envelope of cash. I don't know what it is. There's people all around us who are in need. And we have been invited, even when the math doesn't add up, to follow the example of our Savior, to demonstrate reckless love for the sake of those around us. So that his kingdom might come and his will might be done on earth as it is in heaven. I want to conclude the service this morning by inviting us to respond, singing this song, Reckless Love Again. And I'd ask you to just do one of two things, or maybe both at the same time. As we sing together this song, may the love of God that leaves the 99 to chase after the one, may that not just be a theological idea.

That you agree with this morning, may it be an emotional understanding, a soul level reality, that no matter what experiences you've had with earthly love, whether you had good parents or bad parents, whether you've had good relationships or unhealthy relationships, that there is a pure, undefiled love for you that is accessible to you through the cross of Jesus Christ. May you let that wash over you this morning. You are loved by the God who made you, who put breath in your lungs. And as we sing about how reckless that love is, how sacrificial that love is, may we also think about people in our lives whom God might be inviting us to lay down our own life for the sake of them. To take the love that we've received from God and to extend it to others so that his kingdom might come and his will might be done on earth as it is in heaven.

Before I spoke a word, you were singing over me. Before I spoke a word, you were singing over me. To take the love, you were singing over me. To take the love, you were singing over me. To take the love, you were singing over me.
