GO & TELL: Why Serve?
2025-01-27
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYZrAX3aaZQ

We'll be right back. We'll be right back. Corey knows that I get a little bit nervous talking to you guys. You're a lot more intimidating than, you know, the kids I'm usually speaking with. But so he's my biggest fan this morning. Thanks, Corey. My name is Michelle Meeks. I'm the children's pastor here. So if I haven't met you, it's because I get to hang out with your kids, and I have a blast every Sunday. And I'm super excited to get to be with you as we continue the series, Go and Tell. We're on the third week where we are looking at how our church can seek to fulfill the Great Commission, the last commandment Jesus gave us before he ascended back into heaven. And so for the first two weeks, Ryan kind of gave you an overarching view.

Our church values, our mission statement, and he explained that there are both internal and external components to the Great Commission. This morning, I get to talk to you about the internal components and how you can participate in our strategy to serve those within these walls together. So I have to be honest. This was a bit of a challenge for me because as I just stated, I'm the children's pastor here. We are blessed with so many kids. I was just kind of blown away for a second watching all the teenagers leave. For a minute, I thought you guys were all just leaving. But there was like 40 kids that just got up and left, which is amazing. So with that blessing comes a great need for volunteers. If we end up going to two services at Easter, then the need for volunteers goes up.

So my conflict and my worry with this message is sometimes when you have a message about serving, you can kind of tend to like shut down and be like, oh gosh, not again. I am swamped. I have so many things going on. Please don't try to give me anything else to put on my plate. And I've seen the blessing that those that serve get. I've seen the blessing that the children get. And so my challenge for you is if you have that internal pool, if you're being honest with yourself, I would just like you, as the song said, to just give God a chance to speak to you. I promise no one's going to make you volunteer for anything. But he's taught me so much as I prepared this message. And so I don't want you to miss any of it if you have that pool.

So let's just dive in. To begin with, I want to look at what the Bible says about you and I once we've made the decision to follow Christ. So once you've decided that Jesus is who he said he was and you want to follow him as the King of kings and Lord of his lords, what does the Bible say about you in that moment? If you look at Romans 1, 16, it says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God that brings salvation to everyone who believes. First to the Jew, then to the Gentile. If you've been around church for any amount of years or days, you've heard the word gospel, right? That's a word that gets thrown around all the time. And this says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel.

So before we get ahead of ourselves, what does the word gospel actually mean? So the word gospel comes from the Greek word euangelion. If you know Greek, I apologize if I butchered that. But it means good news. In the New Testament, it refers to the announcement of the understanding that Jesus brought the reign of God to earth in his life, death, and resurrection. So when we're talking about the gospel, that's what we're talking about, the whole story that Jesus was the Messiah, and he came. He lived a life worthy for us to follow. He gave his life on the cross for you and I, and he rose again. That's the gospel. When you come to a place in your life that you have that understanding, it literally changes. When you've accepted that, it changes who you are.

Look at 2 Corinthians 5.17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. The new has come. You are a new creation the moment you make that decision. You are now seen as blameless in God's eyes. Because of the atonement of Jesus on the cross, you are no longer seen by your faults, by your sins in the past, present, and future. You are seen as blameless in God's eyes, and you are a new creation. So this should be the most freeing thing to you once you make this step. It's nothing like the world offers, right? There is nothing on this earth that gives us this freedom. Everything we have here we have to earn, and Jesus is saying, you can't earn what I'm giving you. You are seen as blameless because of what I did on the cross for you.

Nothing you can do can take that away or earn it, and so we should be so free and full of happiness for the fact that Jesus has given us that gift. But the gospel doesn't end there, or it shouldn't. The gospel should go deeper into you, changing you every day, every moment, as you learn more and more. As long as you are seeking God, he's going to continue to change you through the gospel. And the goal is that you should hopefully be able to see the world through the eyes of Jesus, no longer through your own eyes. So the Bible gives us a lot of examples of this, how people accept Christ, but then they begin to change. The gospel goes deeper into them, and you see them begin to change and form into a person who sees the world through Jesus' eyes.

So I want to give you two quick examples. In Galatians 2, we have Paul and Peter. So Peter was one of Jesus' disciples, so he got to walk with Jesus for all three years of his ministry. He got to ask him questions. He saw the miracles. He watched him be crucified. He watched him come back to life. So you would think he would have a very good understanding of the gospel. He was there for a lot of it. And then you have Paul. Paul did not believe that Jesus was who he said he was. He has an encounter with Jesus on the road to Damascus, and his life changes. So you have these two men, and in this situation, Peter is still obeying Old Testament law. So he was a Jew by birth. Old Testament law says that Jews were not allowed to sit and eat with Gentiles.

Gentiles were considered unclean. And so in this situation, Peter is not eating with Gentiles. He's kind of elevating himself above the Gentiles, and Paul sees this, and he knows that it's not right. He knows that Peter knows this, but the gospel hadn't gone deep enough into him that's made him change. So Paul lovingly confronts him. Galatians 2, 14 through 16, when I saw that they were not following the truth of the gospel message, I said to Peter in front of the others, since you, a Jew by birth, have discarded the Jewish law, and are living like a Gentile, why are you now trying to make these Gentiles follow Jewish traditions? You and I are Jews by birth, not sinners, quotation marks, like the Gentiles. Yet we know that a person is made right with God by faith in Jesus Christ, not by obeying

the law. Peter knew this, but the truth hadn't gone deep enough into him. There was still a lot of transforming that his heart needed to do. Paul saw this, and he's helping him to grow closer to Jesus. This is ministry, coming alongside of someone and lovingly reminding them, neither of us deserve this. Paul and Peter, we were there for the whole way. We were there. We knew Jesus. Well, Peter did. But we don't deserve the salvation. The Gentiles don't. The Jews don't. But we were both accepted into his family because of the atonement Jesus made. Let me give you another example. James 1, 9 through 10. James is giving people who are both rich in monetary amounts and poor a different way to look at the gospel. So he says in verses 9 and 10, believers who are poor have something to boast about, for

God has honored them. And those who are rich should boast that God has humbled them. So what is this? He's talking about the gospel. He's saying if you are poor and society looks down on you, if you are constantly doubting yourself, you need to look at the gospel. The gospel tells you that God has elevated you and you are welcome into the kingdom of heaven. If you are rich and society is constantly telling you how amazing you are, you need to look at the gospel. You need to be reminded that you don't deserve the salvation that you've been given. And knock yourself down a couple pegs. Look at the gospel and be reminded of who you are in Christ because that's what matters. Who we are in the world doesn't matter. Who we are in Christ is all that matters.

So he's just reminding us, never forget who you are in Christ. Think about it this way. If you believe you're worthless, you won't be able to see how highly God views you. On the other hand, if you are always being told how wonderful you are, you can become arrogant and get caught up in what the world offers and miss what God is showing you. James is challenging the believer to rise above what the world tells you you are. Do you view yourself, if you're honest, based on how the world views you or how Jesus views you? James is challenging us to constantly look at ourselves through Jesus' eyes, not through the world. This is ministry. It's taking the gospel deeper, not allowing it to be surface level. Yes, when you become a Christian, you are seen as blameless, but he doesn't want you to

walk on this earth and just sit with that and not go deeper. There are so many levels to the gospel and the longer I spend with Jesus, the more I realize there's so much more that I have to learn. But each time he teaches me something, I grow deeper in him. I bless him more. I begin to see things through Jesus' eyes more than my own eyes, and it's an incredible thing, yet I have so much more to go. A good friend of mine, Dave Ballinger, I think he's actually with the kids right now. So he once told me something a few years ago when we were going, he's like, he's an incredible guy. If you don't know him, you should get to know him. He's amazing. But he once told me something that I've never forgotten.

He said, the closer I get to God, the more I realize how far away from him I was. And that is so true. The closer you get, the more you find out about him. The more that you see him move, which I get to see daily working with your kids, the closer you get and the more you trust him. The things of this world don't rock you as much as they used to because you see God in everything. Romans 12, 2 says, do not conform to the patterns of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. He is literally renewing our minds. So keeping all of this in mind, the fact that you're a new creation the moment you accept Christ as your Lord and Savior, but that your mind is being daily removed and that the gospel

must go deeper into you in order for you to be more like Christ, I'd like to look at another Scripture that comes right before Romans 12, 2. Romans 12, 1 says, therefore I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God's mercy to offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God. This is your spiritual act of worship. So because of the gospel, because you have a deep understanding of who God is, because he is transforming your mind, you are called to be a living sacrifice. If you've been around church for a while, you've heard this Scripture. But the question is, what does a living sacrifice actually mean? It's a lot weirder than you think it is. The word sacrifice is actually the Greek word for killing. So you are called to be a living killing.

It's deliberately paradoxical. The more I read the Bible, this is one of the many things God has taught me since having this job, is you have to look at who the original audience of the Scripture was. I've heard it said that the Bible was not written to us, but for us. So who is the original author, or who is the original audience of this? So Paul is writing this, he's writing this to the Christian church in Rome. It's full of Jews and Gentiles. Christian church had just begun to expand. People were realizing that Jesus was the Messiah. But during this time, everyone, regardless if you were Jewish or not, would understand the role of a sacrifice. Many religions at that time understood that there was a deity and there were humans, and that we were on different levels.

So to make yourself presentable to the deity, whether it was the real God or a false God, you had to perform some sort of sacrifice. In the Jewish law, it was an animal sacrifice to atone for your sin, but other religions had sacrifices too. So when he uses this word, living sacrifice, that generation would understand at least the sacrifice part. There were also temples around that people understood that's where you went to make, the sacrifices. Paul is talking to Christians at that time, and he's reminding them that the Christian life, the life that you're choosing, is both like and unlike the Old Testament sacrifice. First, let's look at two ways that it's different. First off, the Old Testament sacrifices, when you would bring an animal to be sacrificed, that was bloody, right? That was on purpose.

Blood symbolized the life of the animal, representing the idea that without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sin. So essentially, the animal acted as a sacrifice for the sinner's life. The animal's blood allowed for atonement and reconciliation with God through that offering. This is not the way it is now, or it was when Paul was talking. There was no atoning for sin. The sacrifice he's talking about is not an atoning for sin. You do not offer a sacrifice to be forgiven. You don't say, I'm going to work really hard, I'm going to do all these great things, and then you're going to forgive me, and then I'll be right with God. That's not how it is now. Jesus' sacrifice on the cross ends all guilt offerings and sin offerings, as his death was

the atonement for our sins. So this living sacrifice that they're talking about is different. A living sacrifice isn't a sacrifice to be forgiven, but an offering of gratitude and praise. Because of everything Christ has given us, we want to thank him. The Christian life is also unlike the Old Testament sacrifice, because when you offered your sacrifice in the Old Testament, you made a sacrifice, and then it was over, right? You sinned, you acknowledged your sin, you made a sacrifice, and it was done until you sinned again, and then the process began all over again. The living sacrifice, on the other hand, is never over. It's a constant sacrifice you make over and over. Think about it this way. The problem with a living sacrifice is that it keeps crawling off the altar, right? The animal has no choice.

He is not being asked whether he wants to be a sacrifice. He is being forced. He's forced on the altar to give his life. But you and I are never forced on the altar. This is a choice that you can choose to make. And often, we keep crawling off the altar, right? My favorite line in the song, Come Thou Fount of Every Blessing, is prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. A living sacrifice is an every day, every moment, right now decision. Do you want to give your life to God and crawl back on the altar, or do you want to walk away? The choice is always yours, and to be honest, it can be intense at times. So what ways is this living sacrifice similar to the Old Testament sacrifice?

Well, there's still a death involved, but not the death of an animal. It's the death of yourself. Not physically, but rather the death of the idea that you know best for yourself. That you have all the answers, that you should depend on your own understanding. This is a crazy thought in our culture, right? Everything in our culture tells us, we know best. Do the best thing for you. I watch this with my almost 13-year-old daughter all the time. Everything in her society and in our society is saying, put yourself first. Believe in your own heart. Trust in your own understanding. And everything about this living sacrifice is the opposite of that. It's saying, I actually don't know right, the best. God knows best. He has the best intention for me. My heart is flawed. I shouldn't follow my heart, because it's going to lead me astray.

But Jesus will never leave me astray. This is how a living sacrifice is. Rather than putting yourself and your desires first, like we're taught to do, a living sacrifice means you have to put the idea that you know best to death. And it kind of feels like a death at times. It's telling you to go completely against what the world is telling you. And while it feels like a death and is challenging, on the other side of it is life. That's why it's called a living sacrifice. It's a sacrifice that leads to life.

While culture has convinced us that we should live for ourselves, in reality, if you follow the rules that culture gives us to live for ourselves, you're never actually living for yourself. You're a slave. You're a slave to money. You're a slave to your possessions. You're a slave to your children. You're a slave to your job. You're a slave to constantly chasing what they tell you you need to chase. Like I said, I watched this in my, she's almost 13. She watches all these YouTube channels. She's not here this morning. She's six, so she has no idea I'm talking about her. But she'll get mad later. But she watches all these YouTube channels. If you have a teenager, you know what I'm talking about. They tell you you need everything. There's all these reviews. If you get this makeup, if you have this shirt, if you watch these things,

you're constantly being told this will make you happy. So we just had Christmas. She had a list a mile long of all the things that YouTube told her she needed. And she, between us and her grandparents, she got some of the things on the list. So Christmas morning, she's elated. She has all the things that the world tells her she needs. Within two days, she starts developing a new list. Because you cannot meet the standards of the culture because it's going to change constantly. But it tricks us into thinking, if we can just get this, then we'll be happy. When Jesus is saying, none of that's going to fulfill you. If you give your life to me, it leads to life. Many of you know who Jim Carrey is, right? He just did an interview, and one of the things he said just struck me so hard.

He said, I wish everyone could get rich and famous and have everything that they've ever dreamed of so that they can see that it's not the answer. He has everything. He's got fame. He has money. And he's saying it doesn't bring happiness. How many times do we see movie stars turn to drugs and alcohol or suicide? Because they get to the height, and it's not enough. If that's not enough, then what is? And the answer is, Jesus. If you give him your life and you choose to lay back on that altar, he will give you the hope and the life that you're looking for. See, Jesus himself not only lived a life that was a living sacrifice, but he also gave his life as the ultimate sacrifice. That means that he knows what's best for your life, even when it doesn't make sense to you.

When you realize that God loves you and he loves your children more than you could ever imagine, you will truly be free. You can allow the gospel to go deeper into you without fighting it, and you will truly be willing to offer your life each day as you live it as a sacrifice. You will choose to get back on the altar. So let's look at the next part of that verse. It says, this is your spiritual act of worship. Once you get it, once you have that relationship with God, and the gospel has gone deeper into you, you have a job to do. You have a calling. 1 Peter 2 says, you are coming to Christ, who is the living cornerstone of God's temple. He was rejected by people, but he was chosen by God for great honor.

And you are living stones that God is building into his spiritual temple. What's more, you are his holy priests. Through the mediation of Jesus Christ, you offer spiritual sacrifices that please God. For you are a chosen people. You are royal priests, a holy nation, God's very own possession. As a result, you can show others the goodness of God, for he called you out of darkness into his wonderful life. Peter is saying that you who are found in Christ are like a royal priest. Again, you have to look at who Peter is originally speaking to. First generation Christians, they would have understood what was meant when he said a royal priest. In the Old Testament, there were jobs, right? There were certain people who were given higher jobs. There were priests, prophets, and kings. So a prophet would hear from God.

Back then, the Holy Spirit didn't live within you. So a prophet was chosen to hear from God. And then the prophet would then tell everybody else what God was saying. And then you have a priest. A priest would take someone's sacrifice and present it to God for them. A normal person wasn't allowed to sacrifice their own thing and give it to God. The priest had to take the sacrifice and offer it to God on their behalf. And then you had kings. The king's job was to hold people accountable to what God's commandments were.

Basically, the general public in the Old Testament was relatively passive. Once a year, during this time, when Peter is writing, they would come to Jerusalem and they would let the experts do it. They brought their sacrifice, they gave it to the priest, the priest would offer it to God. Prophets would tell them what God wanted them to hear. And hopefully, they would avoid the king by doing what they were told to do. But the general public was relatively passive. Then the New Testament comes along. Then Jesus comes along and everything is flipped upside down. As a matter of fact, the Romans believed that Christians were atheists because they didn't do anything like any other religion at the time. They didn't go to the temple anymore. Rather than going to the temple, which was back then the only place you could talk to God, they started meeting in people's houses.

They weren't offering sacrifices anymore. Nothing about Christianity looked the way that it did before. But because the other religions knew that there was a deity and there was a human and there was a chasm that had to be crossed through a sacrifice, through some sort of giving. But when Jesus came and died, Christians understood that the chasm is gone. That we no longer have to offer these sacrifices of blood to be reconciled with God. That's why they didn't need to meet in a temple. That's why they got to meet in people's homes. That's why they no longer gave sacrifices. And then almost in the same breath, Christians themselves are referred to as the temple which God now dwells. Look at verse 5. And you are living stones that God is building into his spiritual temple.

What's more, you are his holy priests. Through the mediation of Jesus Christ, you offer spiritual sacrifices that please God. The new Christians were revolutionary. The first thing, there's no more sacrifices. Jesus is the ultimate sacrifice. Now, there's no more temples. Jesus says that your body is where his temple now lays. The crazier thing is in verse 9. You are royal priests, a holy nation, God's very own possession. As a result, you can show others the goodness of God, for he called you out of the darkness into his wonderful light. Every Christian is like a royal priest, called by God to offer their life as a living sacrifice. Every Christian is like a prophet who hears from God and is called to share what they hear with others. And every Christian is like an ambassador ruled by King Jesus who is called to lovingly hold others accountable to God's laws.

And every Christian is like a holy temple that you used to have to worship, now the Holy Spirit lives within us. Everything changed when Jesus came and gave his life. You are all like prophets, priests, and ambassadors to King Jesus. You have a calling to fulfill. So what does that look like in today's church? A prophet in today's church is someone who shares the gospel with others, helping to make sure that the message isn't just heard, but goes deeper into their lives, changing them. A priest is someone who loves the gospel into others. They're encouraging, they're patient, they're loving, they're counselors. This would be a great example of Dave if you know him, Ballinger. He is so patient and caring, and he's always there when someone needs him. An ambassador helps to hold people accountable, giving people direction, leading people towards obedience with God,

understanding that they themselves are also at fault and don't deserve what they have been given, but together work towards obedience to God. Every single believer is called to speak the gospel into others, to love the gospel into others, and to lead the gospel into others. Every single one of you. The barrier is gone. There is no hierarchy. Trust me, I know, because of the position that I'm in, it's blown my mind. He doesn't view anyone higher than the other one. And in case you are doubting this new calling, I want to look at one important thing. How in the world did Christianity grow from a group of 12 ragtag disciples into, within a couple hundred years, became the official religion of the Roman church? If you haven't heard of, there's this guy who has a lot of podcasts and videos.

His name's Wesley Huff. I've become one of his biggest fans. He's amazing. He's into apologetics. I highly recommend listening to him. But I was listening to one of his things, and he was talking about how the early church had so much persecution, you would have thought that they would just run the other way, right? They knew who Jesus was, and they were willing to risk their lives to tell other people about it. So in around 19 AD, so about 60 years after Christ's death, there was an emperor. His name was Emperor Domitian. And he made a decree that everyone had to go to the temple and offer incense in his name, saying that he is God, essentially, worshiping Emperor Domitian. He did this to single out Christians, because he knew if they really were a Christian,

they wouldn't offer incense to him. They would only worship the one true God. So what he did was, if you didn't do it, you weren't given a certificate. This certificate allowed you to buy and sell goods. Can you imagine, in the first century, not being allowed to buy or sell goods? That's how you survived. Not only that, but he then had a list of Christians, and often they were arrested and killed for their faith. Yet, it continued to grow. How did that happen? It wasn't a top-down approach. There wasn't some really good pastor that everybody invited their friends to come listen to. Because if you invited the wrong person, and they told the magistrate, the entire group could be arrested and killed. So it didn't happen like that. No, every single Christian in the first century church operated as a prophet, a priest, or an ambassador to King Jesus.

Every single Christian took what God was teaching them and used it to help others grow closer to him. See, today, most Americans, if we're honest, go to church to check a box or to meet a need, and we go home, and we don't give it another thought. If you come to church simply to be filled, then leave, you are missing out on what the Holy Spirit wants to do in your life. Serving is one thing. When you get up there and you serve and you do your good deed, that's not what happens when you serve. You get to witness God move. I have seen things that I never would have seen had I not been in the role that I'm in. I've seen a man come to church who was terrified to walk in this building, yet when he comes in, he's met by one of our volunteers who just happens to invite him to a Bible study on the one Christian book that he owned.

He had never opened it, never read it. Only Christian book he owned, and that's the Bible study that this group was doing. That's Jesus. And the only reason that you get to know about it is because you answer the calling that God has placed on your life, and then he uses you. And then your relationship with him grows deeper. Because when you realize, you put that book in my heart for this man, and when that man realizes, you love me enough to put that book in his heart, everything changes. But it won't happen if we don't answer the calling that God has given us. If you're here thinking this isn't for you, that you aren't qualified, and that you're too busy, you aren't gifted, I want to close with a final thought. Look at 1 Peter 2.

You are coming to Christ, who is the living cornerstone of God's temple. He was rejected by people, but he was chosen by God for a great honor. And you are living stones that God is building into his spiritual temple. So back in those days, again, who is the audience? Structures were made with a cornerstone. That's what started the building. You laid the cornerstone. It was the biggest stone. The weight of the building sat on that stone. It gave you the direction, the angles. And Peter is referring to Jesus as this cornerstone in our lives. Put him first. Allow the weight of the building to rest on him. Point your life in the directions that he gives you. But then, he goes on to say that you and I are living cornerstones that God is using to build his temple.

So, you have Peter, again, one of the 12 disciples. He lived with, he walked with Jesus. He saw what Jesus had to offer. And Jesus actually refers to Peter as the stone at which he will build his church on. But, when it came time for crucifixion, when Jesus was suffering the most he's ever suffered before, Peter, his close friend, the one that was there with him through everything, denied him, not one time, but three times. When the whole world has turned their back on Jesus, Peter denied him. Fast forward to a couple days later, after Jesus has come back from the dead, Jesus is sitting with Peter on the beach. He says to Peter, do you love me? He's not condemning him. He's not making him feel bad. He just says, do you love me?

And Peter says, yes, three times. And he says, feed my sheep. Peter had to have been thinking, Lord, are you nuts? I just failed you. I'm not a rock. I'm quicksand. Nothing about who I am deserves to be a ministry leader. You said I was the rock, and I immediately failed you with time, when the time came. And Jesus is saying, Peter, nothing makes you a better leader. Nothing makes you better at changing people's lives in Jesus' name than when your failure is plunged into his grace. See, the more failures you have, the more you realize the gospel's healing power. When I was preparing for this message, I 100% felt like, Peter, I can't do this. I am not worthy to be up there. And Jesus gave me this. The more failure you have, your failure plunged into my grace is what makes me able to use you.

So if you're here thinking, I failed too many times, perfect. You know what forgiveness looks like. You know what it means like to not deserve the gift that you've been given. And none of us do. But the more you realize it, the more you're able to love Jesus into people's lives, to forgive, to welcome them into our church with no baggage. Because you know you don't deserve to be here either. And Jesus will use that. Many of you don't know how I became the children's pastor. My husband and I had just moved to Winchester. We had been searching for a church for a few years. And my kids just, no matter what church we went to, there's nothing wrong with the churches. They were great. My kids just didn't want to go. And they would cry.

And they would get called out. And they'd sit with us. And you know that doesn't work. And so, one Sunday, we were sitting at Canvas Church, and the pastor announced they were looking for a children's pastor. And I got that nudge. You know the God nudge when you're like, what about you? I'm like, I didn't have any formal Bible training. I didn't go to school to be a children's pastor. I don't know how to run volunteers. Like, I don't. But he just kept nudging me. So within a month, I had resigned from my job, and I was on staff at a church having no idea what I was doing. But I have gotten to see God move in my life in ways that I can't imagine. I've seen volunteers become friends and family members. I've seen children find Jesus because a volunteer had the patience for them.

And I would never give up anything that God has given me through following that. Imagine what God could do through you if you stepped out of your comfort zone and into your calling. How might God use you to point young children towards Jesus in a culture that is so stacked against them? How might God use your friendly presence to calm the fears of a recovering addict stepping into a church the first time? How might God use your hospitality to give lonely people a safe community to experience God's love? How might God use your service to bring the service to someone who's elderly and can't make it into the building? There are so many ways that God has gifted you specifically. And someone out there needs your gift. They will only find Jesus if you step out of your comfort zone and into his calling.

Because what you've gone through is exactly what they need to hear to understand that they are welcome here and that God loves them and that they can't earn it. So it doesn't matter how many times they've messed up. There's always another chance to come back to Jesus, to crawl on that altar. He won't force you. He doesn't force anybody to crawl on any altar. But a living sacrifice leads to life. And he wants to give you that. I want to leave you with the words of a woman named Mrs. J.K. Barney. She lived in 1918 and she wanted to be a missionary. But she was a woman in 1918. She wasn't able to be a missionary. But God kept tugging at her heart in little ways. So there was this older gentleman and he was dying.

And he was known through the community as being someone that was really mean. So people were sending food outside of his door, but they were leaving alone. So he was dying alone. So God tugged at her heart. She got that little God nudge. And he said, I want you to go up there. So she does. She answers the calling. And he's really mean to her. He's nasty. Tells her to get out of his house. And she leaves feeling defeated. All right, God, I did what you asked me to do. Clearly it didn't work. But I'm done. But he keeps tugging at her heart. She keeps getting this little tug. So finally, she realizes that she never fully gave him over to God. So she prays, oh, Christ, give me a little glimpse of the worth of a human soul.

Then she stops and she asks the reader, have you ever prayed that prayer and meant it? Don't, she said. Unless you are willing to give up the ease and selfish pleasures, for life will be a different thing for you after he reveals it to you. So God answers her prayer and she gets this fire under her. And she's like, I don't care how he treats me. I am going up there because Jesus loved him. And so she goes back and he's mean to her again. She says, I don't know what I expected. But the man greeted me with an awful oath. Again, it's 1918. He was mean. But it didn't hurt as bad as it did before. And this was the line that just had me in tears. For I was behind Christ and I stayed there.

You are not in this alone. We are not meant to go out there alone. We are meant to be behind Christ and stay there and let him lead us. Because there is nothing we can't handle if Christ is in front of us. God never intended for us to do this alone. But he has a calling specifically for you. It's not a top-down approach. God never intended it to be a top-down approach. Jesus bridged the gap. So now, what is it in your life that you have lived through that God wants to use? Just like Peter, we're not rocks. We are quicksand. But in Christ, with him in front and us behind, he can do incredible things. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, I thank you for the words that you've given me, God. I pray for every person in this room.

We have so much telling us we're not good enough. That we don't qualify. That we aren't the one you want to use. But I know from firsthand experience that you can take someone that has no right to be used and use them in ways they can never imagine. So I pray, whatever you're tugging on each heart here, God, that you would make it abundantly clear. Don't let us walk away. Keep tugging on our hearts until we get to witness your hand in our lives. Allow our church to walk into the roles that you've given us. I thank you for the experiences. I thank you for the fact that you have welcomed us into your family with open arms. We love you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thank you. Brian's coming up. Don't leave. Are you coming up? Y'all want to sing a chorus of Cornerstone? All right, let's stand. All right. Let's stand.

Lord of all Christ alone. Cornerstone, weak made strong in the Savior's love and through the song. He is Lord, Lord of all. After that passage in Romans 12, Paul kind of gives a long description of what a church filled with people who function as living sacrifices looks like. And I just want to end our service today reading this over us as a prayer. May this be a description of what our church becomes as each and every single one of us live into our calling. To be like prophets who take God's word to the people in need. Like priests who represent people's needs before God and like ambassadors to King Jesus. It says this. Because of the privilege and authority God has given me, I give each of you this warning. Do not think of yourselves better than you really are.

Be honest in your evaluation of yourselves, measuring yourselves by the faith that God has given you. Just as our bodies have many parts and each part has a special function, so it is with Christ's body. We each are many parts of one body and we all belong to each other. In his grace, he has given us different gifts for doing certain things well. So if God has given you the ability to speak, speak with as much faith as God has given you. And your gifts in serving others, serve them well. If you're a teacher, teach well. Or if you have the gift of encouragement, encourage others. If it is by giving, give generously. If God has given you leadership ability, take that responsibility seriously. And if you have a gift for showing kindness to others, do it gladly.

Don't just pretend to love others, but really love them. Hate what is wrong. Hold tightly to what is good. Love each other with genuine affection and take delight in honoring one another. Never be lazy, but work hard and serve the Lord enthusiastically. Rejoice in confident hope. Be patient in trouble and keep on praying. When God's people are in need, be ready to help them and always be eager to practice hospitality. This is where it gets hard. Bless those who persecute you. Don't curse them. Pray that God will bless them. Be happy with those who are happy and weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with each other. Don't be too proud to enjoy the company of ordinary people and don't think you know it all. Never pay back evil with more evil. Do things in such a way that everyone can see you are honorable.

Do all that you can to live at peace with everyone. Do all that you can to live at peace with everyone. Dear friends, never take revenge. Leave that to the righteous anger of God for the Scripture says, I will take revenge. I will pay them back says the Lord. Instead, if your enemies are hungry, feed them. If they are thirsty, give them something to drink. In doing this, you will heat burning coals of shame on their heads. Don't let evil conquer you, but conquer evil by doing good. Father, may this passage be true of our church as we take seriously the invitation to go deeper into the gospel moment by moment and day by day. May we make room for you to do whatever you want to do in our lives. May we become a temple of the Holy Spirit.

In this pocket of our little town in Winchester, may the light of Jesus shine outside of these walls because we take your word seriously. Because we welcome the invitation to step into our calling. We love you so much, Jesus. It's in your name we pray. Amen. Go in peace, church. Please, I'd love for those of you that are new, want to get connected to stay for some pizza. 15 minutes in the kids' room. Let's give them time to get out and we'll be there.

Let's give them time to get connected to stay for some pizza. Let's give them time to get connected to stay for some pizza. Let's give them time to stay for some pizza. Let's give them time to stay for some pizza. Let's give them time to stay for some pizza.
