India Global Partners: the Kumar Family
2025-07-21
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9qukEX4CY8g

You all can obviously be seated. Can we give the Lord a clap of praise this morning? Is that okay? Just thinking about it, there's a sporting event that I happen to be paying a lot of attention to today and this weekend. And I was thinking about how I get up out of my seat and clap when a golfer that I like makes a putt. But then we sing songs like, he is the heel that crushed the serpent's head. We should be clapping for that. So really beautiful opportunity we have to spend with our global partners from India. You're gonna hear that language. I've been training myself with that language a lot this weekend. I'm so used to, many of you probably grew up in churches where you just call the people that you support that do gospel work.

In other countries, you call them what? Missionaries. We read Acts 1 this morning. And the last time I checked, you're a missionary. And I'm a missionary. And we're missionaries. Because anyone who has the spirit of God living inside them have been called and equipped to take the gospel to lost people everywhere we go. And so global, I like the language of global partner. They are pastors. They are church planters. They are outreach directors. They do so many things. And so just love that language. And so I told them we were in a, I told Reverend Doctor, by the way, if you see him in the lobby, make sure, respect, okay? Reverend Doctor. I told him we were in a series on Psalms. And then this week, I realized that he traveled half the way, half the way,

half across the world to be with us. And so I was like, hey, I know I told you to preach on one thing. If you want to preach on that, great. If you want to preach on anything else, you traveled half the way around the world. So let the spirit speak to you for us. So in a little bit, Reverend Doctor Kumar is going to come up and preach to us. Before that, I'm going to invite Samuel, his son up. He's going to kind of share some pictures and some updates and some legacy of what God has been doing in and through their ministry for years and years and years. And then Latha is going to come up after that. And then she'll welcome her husband and we'll have just a wonderful time of ministry. Sound good?

Hello, everyone. It's so glad my parents and I were so happy to be here in your midst. Thank you for all the love that you have shown us. I'm just here. I just wanted to present the things that we do back in India because the prayers you do and the financial help you do, it helps us impact thousands of people. So I just want to show you how your ministry helps the people in India. So these are my grandparents, Reverend Dr. K. Prashant Kumar and Reverend Nirmala Prashant Kumar. So they were in Ashland over here. My grandfather, he studied in Ashland. And they felt the call of God to come back to India to start the ministry over there. So they came back to India. This is me with my parents. So it's three of us.

I have two other sisters as well. One stays in India and the other is here in Florida. So this is my grandfather. He graduated from the Ashland Seminary. So, and this is my father. He is an ordained pastor. And my mom, she's also an ordained pastor. And they, we, as a family, we are in the ministry. And it's only God's grace that he's been using us to help the orphanage. We have an orphanage back at home where people, they come from, children from broken families. They come because they have no one to take care of. So we help them. We give them food. We have a ground for them to play and help them interact with all the people over the other kids. And we also have a Bible Institute, Brethren Bible Institute, where we train pastors.

The pastors, they go back home to their own villages and they help the people around. They preach the gospel over there. This is how we started. We started with bicycles back at home and then God has blessed us. He has given us, he has blessed us through all the tough times we go through, but still God was faithful and he has been helpful. He has been faithful. He's, he loved us and we were able to train around 822 pastors who go back to their villages to preach the gospel. This, this is how we train the pastors. We give them bikes for easy access of commuting to their, in and around their villages as well. And after the pastors go back, they preach the gospel and then we, we go out to the villages and we then baptize

the people. It's usually a pond or something. There's no formal setting back in India. So wherever we can find water, we just go, we just baptize the people over there. And on, in the year 2009, there were 10,000 people baptized by the grace of God and now we have 18,000 people baptized. So that's good news and we're very happy to present that to you. And after they're baptized, we just take a picture and they're presented Bible so that they can know God more personally, so they can move on in their personal journey to know Christ. So these are the village churches in India. So this is where the pastors, they go, they preach the gospel and there are missionaries who have come from here to India just to see how God has blessed us.

So this is a prayer tower. It started like this because in India, it's hard. If you are not a praying family or a praying church, it's very hard to stand firm in the faith back in India. So this is how the prayer tower started. It started as a small hut and where people, they come, they write their prayer request. They also pray for the prayer request. So whoever they want to write, they write their prayer request so that others can also pray for them. And this is how God has blessed us. We constructed a new prayer tower where people come and pray. So this is how the prayer tower looks now. So we also have a typing institute. Before the computers came in, we were training people in the typing institute so that they can finance

their own families. And also, that's how we help the people. So we were able to train around 1,600 people in the typing institute. And then slowly, we moved out into the computer institute where we trained 485 people. So this is a buttermilk center. In the summers, it usually goes around 115. So it's very hard. So people, they cannot move comfortably outside. So this is a buttermilk center which is for free. So people, whenever they keep traveling, they come, they stop here. They drink the buttermilk. It cools down the body so they can just continue their travel. So this is how, in the villages, there's not much of power. So we have to carry our own generators to conduct any public meetings. So this is how the meetings are conducted as well over there. So by God's grace,

people have been turning up good because they see the love of God which nobody can show them except through Christ. They cannot receive the kind of love that we show them. So the people have been from the U.S., they have been very helpful in all the things and this is once when they visited as in India back in 2009. So we also have a sewing center where women from broken homes, they come, they train and we give them the sewing machines so that they can go out and they can help their own families, sustain their own families. So the women, we were able to help around 2,000 women. We give them free sewing machines after their training is done which helps them continue their family and we also have a hospital, a free hospital. So this is called

One Rupee Hospital. So the funny thing is you don't get even a chocolate, just a single chocolate for one rupee but by the grace of God we were able to keep this one rupee clinic which has helped around 1.5 million people that's treated so many people just for one rupee. So it's all been the grace of God. So the people, they come, they get treated, they get free medicines as well.

So this is how, there's no religious barrier in clinics because we preach God who is Lord above all so there is, we are not religiously biased so everybody is welcome. There are Hindus, there are Muslims, everybody, they come here, they come there and they get free treatment. so this is my father, we, along with this we have a church, we have, throughout the week we have different services which keeps on, which keeps us busy throughout the week so we are always actively in the ministry so this is how God has blessed us. This is how our village looks like back in India it's all just hearts and all so there pastors they go they preach the gospel they make a church and that's how meetings are conducted in the churches back in the villages. So this

sometimes we don't have a path to walk in in the villages so when it rains or something so they had to lay down leaves just for us to walk through it. So this is how this is church so we have around 150 pastors around the state and where we reside so these pastors they grow and they we meet all of them usually once in two three months so that we can get together and talk about the ministry that we want to do further. so about me I graduated from my bachelor's degree in theology back in 2023 and now I'm doing my masters one in Ashland and one back in India so I'm doing a double degree so I just want you to pray for me so that I can do the ministry even more more than my parents

more than my grandparents I want God to use me to reach millions of people so please pray for us and our family thank you very much praise the Lord I'm so glad to be in your midst today it's really God's abundant grace upon us I don't know maybe some of you were here when we visited you two years ago have you seen us before yes some of you have I'm so glad to be in your midst we are so thankful to the Lord and to our dear pastor Ryan Miller and his dear wife and son who have opened their doors and their hearts to welcome us and last evening we had a wonderful meal with brother Brian and his family I'm so glad to see them here this morning thank you so much for all

the love that you're showing to us maybe you're seeing us in person but in prayer and through your financial support you have been encouraging us and helping us to stand strong for the Lord ministering in India I bring greetings from everybody from all the churches in India and I personally want to thank you with all my heart for your love and your support as my son has explained to you the different ministries that we are doing back in India all this has been possible because you are praying and you are supporting us and God has been using you as an instrument to make us be his instruments back home if you are aware of the situation in India it is becoming more difficult day after day to preach the gospel because sometimes the government that

is in power is not so Christian friendly but God has been giving us the grace to preach in the midst of it and and the only thing the way we can reach to them is that we cannot directly take the gospel to them but we have to do some social service in the sense we have to show God's love through various activities like the sewing school the free medical clinic because if we give out a tract or if we meet a person and tell them about Christ they would accuse us of saying that we are trying to convert them forcefully into Christianity but that is why because we don't want that kind of a thing to happen we are doing these different ministry here at the sewing school at the type institute and the computer

institute we open our doors and we welcome everybody to come there and to get trained usually because most of them are people with very poor financial backgrounds they are unable to educate themselves or get any skills they come to us for free education and free training and when they come into our campus or to our institutes the way we minister to them is that we have a time of Bible reading and devotion so before we start teaching them how to sew or before we give them medical treatment we spend some time with them to tell them about the Lord it's not just the physical world or the body that we are concerned about we are also concerned about their spiritual well-being healing it's it's not enough to be healed physically you also need spiritual healing

so that is how we share God's word we pray with them and we introduce Christ to them and we let them know for themselves nobody is being forced but in their due course of time as they continue to come to us and they attend their sewing school classes because they're listening to God's word and we are praying with them and they see answers prayers being answered in their lives because if they are having some problem in their homes or if somebody is sick or if they're in need of something we pray with them and we make them know and understand that Jesus is real he's the living God he's the savior of the world so many of them have learned to pray because they come from different kinds of backgrounds they don't know how to

pray but they are with us especially at the sewing school for about 10 to 12 months so in that time they really get to know Christ so even after they have completed their course they have got their sewing machines and they go back they start doing their own jobs but they will

done for them and one particular example that I would like to tell you is that there was one Hindu lady who came to the sewing school she got saved there she came to know Jesus at the sewing school and after that she trusted the Lord so deeply and committed her life that not only did she get saved she also led her whole family to know Jesus as their savior and now she works as a prayer warrior as my son introduced to you the prayer towers that we have we usually have prayer warriors who keep praying people from various walks of life it may be the church members it may be some outsider when they see the prayer tower and the praying hands it just invites them so they come to the prayer tower they write

down their requests and the prayer warriors who are there they talk to them they counsel they tell about Jesus and they pray with them and also the prayer tower is open 24 hours they call us over the phone and even then we minister to them so this particular lady who got saved in the sewing center she's working as a prayer warrior now her husband is saved he's a very active member in the church he's always there to read the work and they have two sons and both the sons are dedicated to the Lord they help us a lot with the PA system and everything that we have at the church so now the whole family they are very active members of the church we give glory to Lord Jesus hallelujah so this is just one

example and there are many people especially in India if you don't have children the women are looked down upon so much and you know they are blamed and criticized but whenever we are able to pray with them we have seen the Lord working amazingly many testimonies they have gone to different doctors gotten many different kinds of treatment but when they came to the church and they prayed the Lord has touched them and they have received the fruit of the womb so the Lord is doing great things in India many times that have been many testimonies people have been wanting to commit suicide but when my husband was preaching the Holy Spirit was ministering to their hearts and he prophesied at times and he said there's somebody here who is thinking of ending their lives but

the Holy Spirit is telling you that he loves you and he wants to do something wonderful in your life so many people that way they have trusted the Lord and they knew that God is mindful of each and every one of us nobody is neglected our Lord he's our creator he's our redeemer and he's our sustainer even today you might all have beautiful smiles on your faces but we know that deep down in our hearts there's some brokenness loneliness and discouragement when we are in the midst of various work we tend to meet people who might hurt us but I just want to remind you this morning that we have a Lord who loves us just the way we are and he has great and amazing plans for us the Bible tells us eye has not seen your has not heard and it has not occurred to the heart of man

that love the Lord and everything that happens to a child of God our mighty God is able to turn it for good there is great things in store for you no matter what your past is the Lord wants to give you a bright and wonderful future because even as we read the Bible today when Jesus was being lifted up into heaven he said he's going to come back and we

wind up I just want to remind you of one verse in the Bible that says the harvest is great but the laborers are few many times I wonder is how because we see so many churches so many fellowships all around us but the Bible is saying that the laborers are few and then I realized and God reminded me of the verse that says yes there are preachers there are missionaries as Pastor Ryan reminded us this morning yes each and every one of you is a missionary you are doing your work but the thing is that Satan knows that we are in the end of end times so the harder we work he's working even harder to ruin our harvest so when we are sowing seeds of the good seed of the gospel he's busy sowing

seeds of wickedness and violence and discouragement and false doctrines are coming up and he's very good at imitating or counterfeiting the miracles that the Lord has been doing so we have to be very careful to guard our faith and to prepare ourselves for his coming we should not be distracted by the things that are around us not be deceived by the false teachings and doctrines that may be that we may be exposed to you know so it's very important to be in church to be grounded in God's word and to prepare ourselves for his coming and the Lord says that we should not go empty handed when we go to meet him because even in a worldly way when we go to visit our friends we like to take something with us so when we

are going to meet the king of kings we should not be going empty handed isn't it we need to take some more souls with us that is our desire and that is what we are pursuing wherever we are we pray and we ask the Lord to use us to reach out to more people to win more souls so that heaven will be more crowded than hell yeah we need to deliver we need to hear the cry that is coming from the depths of hell too because as you all know the parable of Lazarus and the rich man you know the rich man when he had enjoyed everything on earth but after he died he went to hell because he did not have Christ he had worldly things but he did not have Christ in his

heart and there in that place of torture he is crying out and he is saying please go and tell my brothers I have five more brothers on earth they need to hear the gospel I don't want them to come to this place there is a cry that is in hell that is crying out and asking somebody to go and reach out to their relatives they don't want anybody else to go to that place they have sinned they have rejected Christ and they have gone there but they don't want any others from their family to

that burden reach out to people and for those who have already trusted the Lord God's will is that he wants to present the church as a bride without spot or without wrinkle perfect in our faith so we just ask the Holy Spirit to perfect our faith and to present us as a beautiful bride for him when he comes and the clouds to take us with him to heaven we give all glory and God for everything that he's doing in India through your prayers and through your financial support and all the love that you're showing to us may God bless you abundantly because the Bible says if you give a glass of water in Jesus name he will not forget to reward you so I'm sure he's going to give you a hundred times more for

all that you're doing for to support the ministry not only in India but throughout the world through all the global partners who are working in the brethren mission may God be glorified in all of our testimony and may God

efforts and your ministry as well now I call upon my husband he's a wonderful preacher very anointed and the Lord is going to speak to us through him good morning we are really blessed to come into your midst once again two years back we were here and how many of you remember that so I thought I am becoming lean day after day is it so so I didn't hear any response that means I didn't reduce any weight it's so nice to be here once again and this morning I had a wonderful message prepared but when I heard the Scripture portion read by our dear sister my whole message God has changed it and it's from act first chapter she read from verse 6 to 11 in verse 8 it says that you will be my

witness this is the word that God gave me when I sat there God said to tell you this you should be his witness when we can be his witnesses only when we receive the Holy Spirit of course I know that you are all very highly intellectual people you know the word of God very well but what is Holy Spirit Holy Spirit of course I'm not talking about Trinity but the things that we cannot do can be done through his power amen what we cannot do there are many things in this world that we can do I'll tell you a small illustration that happened in India when people from your country you people I'm talking about ladies you look very delicate when you people come there the way used to carry the weights Indian men they

never used to dare to carry the weights that you are carrying you look delicate but you're physically very strong but see you're trained that way but let me tell you like this when the Holy Spirit comes upon us you God will give us the abilities that we cannot do we can do through him amen amen I know that you're meditating in psalms so I just wanted to when pastor emailed me saying that we are meditating in from psalms then I was immediately while I am reading that the Holy Spirit has guided me to preach about David the life of David so we all know that David was an anointed man David was filled with the Holy Spirit when Samuel anointed him but David was a what is God's plan about David people think God wanted

David to be the king but if you deeply meditate the heart of God the heart of God about David it is not him becoming the king but God's desire is making David after his own heart got it God can just in few days the first king of Israel Saul became the king but if you take the life of David it took years for him to become the king he molded him if you turn your Bibles to 1st Samuel 24th chapter 1st Samuel 24th chapter this again was a struggle for David Saul loved David in a wonderful way as a father he has loved but the same person turned against David he took 3,000 able men not to attack any country but just to kill one person called David 3,000 people were brought to kill one

person so what happened to him his negative attitude became so violent that he doesn't want to take second chance for his life whether it is good or bad he wants to kill David we all know if you turn your Bibles to 1st Samuel 24th chapter third verse he was in the cave Saul was taking rest in the cave but Saul doesn't know that David along with his team were in the same cave behind him people always gives us wrong advices I'm sorry to say this people I'm not talking about the worldly people spiritual people spiritual people give wrong advice they give advice from the Scriptures they say but David the people who loved David were saying this is the day that God has given you God has given Saul into your hands how should he

come to the same place where we are so it is now you go and kill him David went near Saul but the Holy Spirit didn't allow him to do church let me tell you this Acts of Apostle first chapter or second chapter when we are led by the Holy Spirit when we are led by the Holy Spirit you will receive power that power will make you to do what others cannot do it's not attacking somebody is the power being humble is power being living a life that Christ like Christ had every power in him he can just kill everybody in a fraction of a second from the cross but he said father forgive them but they do not know what they are doing how can this be possible when David was inside the cave a

person who is literally searching him to kill with three thousand people when he when he come across him I don't know what decision I make maybe I will remove my shirt and wear a black shirt take off my Bible and keep it aside and live an ordinary person but David has the heart of Jesus David had a heart of his father he took he took the knife and has cut a small piece of his garment the wonderful words the following words clearly says that Saul got up from his sleep he was going out when David cried saying Saul how can you think that I will kill you you know can I ask you one question when did David became the king it is not after Samuel anointed David Samuel's anointing David was keeping David on the

track to be the king but when he became the king God kept the real blessing words in the mouth of Saul if you turn your Bible to 2nd Samuel 2nd Samuel 1st Samuel sorry 1st Samuel 24th chapter 1st Samuel 24th chapter when David was talking to Saul king Saul he said I'm reading from verse 16 David finished saying all these things is this your voice David my son he says Saul now recollects all the things that David all the good things that David has done to Saul that's the reason he says you are like my son and the following word says you are more righteous than I a person who came to kill David he says you are more righteous than me you have treated me well but I have treated you badly how can

this be possible church an enemy talking about you it is only you had the power of the Holy Spirit when you have the power of the Holy Spirit he will turn your enemies to give positive response for you and and if you if you see that in 18 verse you have now just told me all the good things that you have done because of the lack of time I am going to verse 20 it says 1 Samuel 24th chapter 20th verse I know that you will surely be the king and the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hands Amen only after Saul pronounced this blessing words upon David David became the king listen to this very carefully God testes us to extremes if you are living an ordinary life God will be happy

with you but if you are very close with God God wants to test you God tested Abraham God tested Moses God tested David God tested in the New Testament God tested Saint Paul kept on pleading God take out the thorn in my flesh he could easily take out but God said my grace is sufficient children of God before I wind up but let me tell you you are called by God I really liked the word of the pastor we are all missionaries we are all missionaries see Saturday Sunday is a big day anywhere in the world is the only days that we have for time for ourselves in spite of all this busy schedule why did you come here you have a lot of things to do outside only because you have the love towards

God amen there's a reason you are here but you should be the witnesses for Christ we are the witnesses for Christ let me tell you like this whenever if this is the church that I everyday preach I always tell my congregation people are not going to read the Bible we read the Bible but they don't read the Bible they don't know what Scripture is we are the Scriptures for them we are the Bibles for them if we can see something good in the Bible they should see something good in us we have to be doing something different church we are not ordinary people extraordinary grace that's the reason the Scripture clearly says in Acts first chapter 8 verse you will receive power to face this world in 2003 we took after preaching after attending this

church that Sunday from here we went to Grand Rapids I'm a very forgetful person I don't know from which airport to which airport I flew but our flights got delayed it was almost 1.30 in the night midnight we were dead tired only just few days back we flew from India traveling for almost like 21 hours of flight we were very tired and I just wanted to go to the room go to the destination go into the room just sleep it was 1.30 we are still waiting to our next flight I and my wife are sitting near the gate of the airport the flight which we have to take the captain of the aircraft was just going in the aero bridge to board the aircraft he came back he pointed on our face saying who are

you if you are in that position you will have you will be because this is your country this is not our country we are strangers we are just visitors a person at 1.30 in the midnight points a finger on our face saying that who are you I will be scared I could not understand what his intention was because we come from a background many times we are not secured especially if you are a pastor no you are not secured if you are a Christian you are not secured so things like that happen so I don't know what to answer him but I just ask what answer should give I heard a voice called pastor I said we are pastors you know what he said I could could see all the people's face but your face

is radiant you have a different glow on your face he said children of God let me tell you this we have a hidden power in our face Moses for 40 days and 40 nights he didn't have anything no food no water while he is coming down from the presence of God he carried the presence of God nobody dared to go near him because he has that anointing his face was radiant today my burden wherever I go I always tell people especially if I always challenge my congregation is each one catch one at least one soul in an year how many places we go whenever we come to this place our favorite places are shopping malls different places we go a target and what else we go there Walmart different places we go how many people

you come across but let me tell you with lot of burden if you cannot open your mouth if we cannot open our mouth the people are going to hell we have to open our mouth this is time we are end of the end times we are coming to the last stage of our lives in a fraction of a second the second coming will happen even after the second coming if you break your head Lord I didn't do anything for you there's nothing that we can do this is the time church wherever David went David showed the life of God God wanted him to be a man after his own heart God never wanted him to see as a king after David has lived a very pious life then David was made the king Amen so

it's the time for us to just talk to God it is enough that we have lived for our life we have lived for our families we struggle to do things for our family for our life it is time for us to do something for God I always tell our congregation preaching is our part bringing souls to Christ is your part if this church you're so many people here imagine before December 31st of this year if each can bring one person to Christ oh heaven will rejoice about you heaven will rejoice David was very patient especially I tell you like this we'll be very good preachers outside but David when he brought the ark of the covenant into the city of David his own wife Michal didn't cooperate with him but what did he do he

showed the love of Christ he kept quiet children of God bearing hurt is only an opportunity given by God we had to show Christ to others sacrifice is the power that God is giving us through the Holy Spirit we have to receive it we have to live a life that pleases God let our physical flesh be weak let people hurt us hate us destroy our lives we have many many problems in India people started to talk very badly about us all accusations about me and my wife about my children but we are standing firm for the Lord we know one day we will leave this flesh we will face our heavenly father well done this is the only word we are waiting for can we close our eyes now can we look to Lord in

prayer can we ask the Holy Spirit to strengthen us what are we doing for him now it's very good you're taking care of the church it's very good you're doing everything in the church but let me tell you as a father if I have to talk to my children I'll always say yes you're pleasing me so much it's good but we are God's pleasers we have to please our heavenly father the Holy Spirit should be happy about us it should not grieve in the spirit can we pray now heavenly father thank you for the wonderful opportunity that you have given us Lord there are many people who are dying without you Lord as the Scripture says that we have to be your witness you you have never instructed the angels to be your witness Lord

you have made us to be your witness Lord Holy Spirit we thank you for the life of David for being so humble showing your love in spite of people especially Saul trying to kill him Lord if we have to change anything Lord you guide us in the right direction thank you for this wonderful church wonderful number but Lord next time we visit we want everybody to bring at least one soul with them Lord if it is your will if we don't see them here at least in heaven Lord we have to make heaven with lot of people every knee should bow every tongue should confess that you are our Lord thank you Lord make us to be strong in faith and live the life that pleases you in your sweet holy name we pray amen

can we give a clap offering to God and let us be a wonderful witnesses for Christ amen and amen just really impacted by the idea of turning our enemies to see God's goodness David is a shadow of Jesus who instead of taking victory accomplished victory through laying his life down and as i was walking up i was just reminded of the first person at the at the crucifixion to really get it the Roman soldier the enemy who was partaking in the act of crucifixion said surely this is the Son of God i don't know if you guys know this about american culture but we like to beat our enemies it's just ingrained into our dna and so church as american Christians this is something very important for us to hear that it's God's will that

we would lay down our lives to serve even those who are persecuting us by the power of the Holy Spirit it's the only way we'll do it we will never muster up the strength to lay down our life for our enemies by the power of the Holy Spirit may we be a church of people who have received power from the Holy Spirit and and don't just look to manifest those gifts and supernatural ways that are impressive in church congregations but may we take the power of the Holy Spirit into our nurseries as we change our baby's diapers and we take the power of the Holy Spirit to our workplaces to our family reunions to the facebook timelines and the Holy Spirit be present in us working in and through us for his glory I got a

slide here just wanted to show while the kumars are here just all of the global ministry partners that we support through the brethren church we directly support the kumars in India but we also support the brethren church who supports missionaries in Argentina and Chile and Colombia in India and Malaysia and Paraguay and Spain and Peru and the Philippines and South Africa and all of that flows out of your generosity to us so I just want to say a special thank you for that and I just wanted to just pray for all of our churches and Samuel this is not on the schedule would you mind coming up and praying with me if you're okay I'll pray in English can you pray in Teluga Teluga Father in heaven we thank you for this wonderful time that

we got to spend with brothers and sisters a reminder that your kingdom is global God that you are you you sent a small number of people empowered by your Holy Spirit to Jerusalem and to Judea and to the ends of the earth and that work continues through us today so God I pray a special blessing and I pray that you would just continue to do a special work by the power of your Holy Spirit through the ministry in India through all of the churches that are preaching the gospel in our country and across the world we pray a special blessing over those that we support through our denomination all across the world right now God that you by your Holy Spirit would be strengthening pastors and would be softening the soil of the hearts that

they are encountering on a daily basis God may you be raising up workers who would go into the harvest by the power of your spirit and proclaim the best news that any of us could ever hear that Jesus is the heel that crushed the serpent's head that death no longer has any power death no longer has any sting may we receive that may you get glory for it let's pray to to to we are going to be able to do this. We are going to be able to do this. We are going to be able to do this. We are going to be able to do this. Amen. Church, go in peace. Be empowered by the Holy Spirit. Everywhere you work, live and play. Amen. Amen.
