Celebration Sunday!
2025-09-29
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2UOT0Ev0k8

We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back.

Technically, it was last week, but we got the donut truck this week, so we're celebrating this week. And the plan is really just to celebrate what God has done and honor all the people that it took to make this happen. The reality is nothing that has happened in our church, the reality is nothing that has happened in our church. Actually, before I start preaching, let me, yeah, yeah, yeah, before I start, sorry, there's a script, there's a script. Preacher's got a microphone and a preacher's got a microphone and a Bible in his hand, and I just start like, all right. So, a couple of logistical details. So, a couple of logistical details, okay? We don't have kids' – we don't have kids' – we don't have kids' ministry today. We did that because our kids' ministry volunteers need a break.

They do a lot. And we did that because church is family. Children are image bearers of God, and they are a part of our community. And so, we want you to be here. We're happy that you're here. And we know that you're children. And we know that sitting and being bored is hard. And so, that's okay. We're so glad that you're here. And if it gets – if you get too bored, we have a couple of different strategic spaces that your parents can take you to or that you can run to in this corner over here, out in the back lobby. And the nursery is also available for parents that need to change diapers and all of those things. We're going to try and keep it as short as possible, which is why I was trying to jump to the preachy part quickly.

But we're going to try and keep it short. But I also need everybody to know all the information. So, kids are in here. We're embracing the chaos. It's going to be awesome. My child will probably participate in the chaos. And so, I know – if you're a parent, I know the feeling that you probably are having right now. And so, there's overflow seating out in the lobby. You should be able to hear everything from everywhere. And so, yeah, that's what we are doing this morning. Is everybody on board? Sound good? Yeah. Awesome. So, today, like I said, we celebrate our three-year anniversary. And what we really are doing – like, I'm going to talk about the Bible a little bit this morning. But what we really are doing is we're embodying the message of the Bible.

The message of the Bible regularly tells God's people to give praise to God for all that he has done. Like, that is like what we were created to do. If you read the book of Revelation, like, all of creation is praising God for what he has done. And so, what we are doing this morning in a lot of ways is just embodying the message of God. We are being doers of the word more than just hearers of the word. And so, what I want us to do this morning as we sing and as we celebrate and as we give thanks, I want us to keep our eyes fixed on Jesus who has overcome the grave and who is seated at the right hand of the Father and who is worthy of all of our praise and all of our attention.

So, we're going to give praise to God. And the second thing we're going to do is we're going to honor one another. Because the way in which God chooses to do his work in the world is through people. And I told the worship team this morning, God could have done all of – God could have done all of this without us. Right? This – the thing that God has done, he has done. But the way in which God chooses to work is through people. So, God could have done this without us, but he doesn't do things without people. Because he is a relational God. He has invited us to participate. And so, throughout the Scriptures, there are chapters in Nehemiah and at the end of Romans where the authors of Scripture list the names of people who God has used to faithfully do the work of his ministry.

And so, throughout our time together, I'm going to ask different ministry leaders to stand up, different groups of people to stand up. We are going to celebrate them. And what we are celebrating is that they chose to allow God to work through them. We're going to give honor to one another. We're going to embody the message of Jesus. We're going to attempt to do that in less than an hour, emphasizing our mission, our vision, and our core values along the way. We will definitely miss thanking some people. And so, at the end of service, in the kids' room, there are gift bags like this for all of our volunteers. We have 170 active volunteers. And so, we made you bags. We wrote you thank you cards. We have gifts for you. We want to give honor to you and tell you thanks because we could not be here without you.

We tried to do as much of this service as we could without your help. Sorry. I said as much of it as we could without your help. And even this morning, April and I were laughing. We're like, when we do these things, it just reminds us of how much more thankful we are for our volunteers than we realize. Because when we try and do things without your help, it's a disaster. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, we're going to embrace the chaos. And as people are filling in, if you can make space, if you can squeeze in and push up however you feel like doing that, that would be awesome. So, afterwards, we've got volunteer appreciation gifts. We've got a food truck. We've got access to the playground at the kids' club. So, we're going to have time to hang out in the kids' club.

Your kids can get all of their energy out that we bottled up by me being boring this morning. Sound good? All right. So, Michelle. Michelle, don't go. In just a minute, we're going to ramp up the energy with some music. Before then, please, welcome to the stage, Pastor Michelle. Hey, good morning. Where are my elementary-age students? If you're younger, you come up. Remember, we've been working on a song. Can you guys come up? Right here, buddy. Wait, wait, wait. Down here, down here, down here. Can you guys come up and stand down here? Right up here. Come on up. Come on up. Oh, yeah. They know it. Sing it loud, okay? Face that way. Good morning, Canvas. Go ahead and stand on up. There's probably going to be some dancing on stage. So, as Donovan likes to say, you can sit, kneel, stand, dance, run, whatever you want to do.

Just join in in praising the Lord today. Amen. Amen. Woo! Let everything that has breath, praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Let everything, let everything that has breath, that has breath, praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. I'll praise in the valley, and praise on the mountain. Hey! I'll praise when I'm sure, and praise when I'm downing. I'll praise when I'm numbered, and praise when surrounded. Cause what? Cause praise is the water, my enemy's drowning. Every voice. As long as I'm breathing, I've got a reason to praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul.

And I feel it, and praise when I'm alone. I'll praise you, cause I know you're still in control. Most praise is a weapon. It's more than a sound. It's more than a sound. My praise is a sound that brings Jericho down. As long as I'm breathing, I've got a reason to praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. I won't be quiet. I won't be quiet. My God is alive. How could I keep it inside? Praise the Lord, oh, my soul.

Praise the Lord, oh, my God. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul.

I won't be quiet. My God is alive. How could I keep it inside? I won't be quiet. My God is alive. How could I keep it inside? I won't be quiet. I won't be quiet. My God is alive. How could I keep it inside? Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul.

Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, oh, my soul. Praise the Lord. Let everything, let everything. That has breath. That has breath. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Let everything. Let everything. That has breath. That has breath. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. One, two, one. Praise the Lord.

In a world that often seems so busy and self-absorbed, there are still those who are shining a light of compassion, selflessness, and generosity. We gather not only to acknowledge, but to express our deepest gratitude to our volunteers. It's the diversity of your backgrounds and the unity we find in the gospel that makes our volunteer community so strong and vibrant. You've given your time, energy, and passion, and we want to take a moment to say thank you. Thank you for the hours you've devoted to making a positive impact, for the sacrifices you've made, and for the genuine care you've shown to our congregation through serving others. Whether it's spending a Sunday morning in a kid's church. Greeting a new visitor. Building a shed in the Tennessee heat. Making a meal for a person experiencing homelessness. Or making coffee to help us all get through one of my sermons.

Your contributions have not gone unnoticed. Volunteering is not a solitary endeavor. It is a collaborative effort. And through this collaborative effort, Canvas is able to see the kingdom of God more visibly. Not only in Winchester, but throughout the world. Helping us to recognize the power of working together for the gospel. Each act of kindness, no matter how small, has a ripple effect that reaches far beyond what we can see. Your impact is immeasurable. And for that, we are eternally grateful. Again, your hard work, dedication, and kindness have not only made a difference in the lives of those you know, but to those you may never meet. Let's continue to work together, inspiring those around us to be the best versions of ourselves. You are truly making a difference that will last in eternity. Y'all bringing the energy this morning.

I appreciate it. Hey, I had pray in my notes for the first time I was up here. And you guys got me all flustered. And Donovan was talking about the script. Let's pray. Does that sound good? It sounds very good to me. Thank you, Eliza. Abba in heaven. Daddy in heaven. You are so good. We are so thankful that you choose to partner with us and our families. We are so thankful that you have breathed into many of us the resurrection life that comes through the gospel of the kingdom of God. Kingdom of heaven coming from earth. From heaven to earth. God, we embody that message. We believe that that message is true and is on the move that your kingdom is coming. And that you've invited us to participate in that process. And so we're so thankful for that.

And God, we're so expectant of what you're going to continue to do through a ragtag group of people that just say yes to whatever it is that you call us to. God, today, may you get praise. May you get glory. And may each individual in this room, God, feel the presence of your Holy Spirit. And may we just acknowledge that you are at work, not just in our church, but in churches all across our city and all across our country and all across the world this morning. God, we all gather on Sunday morning to remember that you raised from the dead and that our hope is in that. God, we love you and we thank you. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen. So we're kind of flowing a pattern of the story of our church this morning as we celebrate what God has done.

And we're going to blend in some of our core values, our mission, our vision statement. And one of our core values as a church comes out of the fact that we are a church merger. And so many of you know the story. Some of you know different levels and details of the story. But both the church that was meeting in this building, Grace Community Church, who was here then? Who? Yeah. Awesome. So both Grace Community Church and Canvas Church, who was at the Alamo? Yeah. Both churches were in a spot where we really had questions about what our future was going to look like. Didn't know what God was inviting us to do as a community. Probably at times both groups weren't sure if we were going to continue to be a church or not.

And through the providence of God, the Holy Spirit moved in a small group of individuals that really asked the question is what might it look like for these two churches who don't know what their future is going to look like to find their future together. And so out of that, one of our core values that is shaped by who we are and by our story is that we unite for the sake of the gospel. That this is like at the very core of who we are as a church, we unite for the sake of the gospel. We lay down our privileges, our preferences, and our priorities in order to push forward the kingdom of God in the city of Winchester as it is in heaven. And that is something that we have to actively choose to do.

Church unity is all throughout the pages of Scripture. But my favorite passage is in John chapter 17 when Jesus is getting ready to go to the cross and he prays for his disciples. And then he moves his prayer forward to everyone who will believe in their message. And that includes those of us in the room who have embraced the gospel of Jesus. That everyone who believes the message of Jesus that has been passed through to the disciples on to us from a very small group of people in Jerusalem to us today. For all of us, that Jesus prayed that the world will know that we are his followers by the way we love one another. And I don't know how much experience many of you have had in churches, but we're not always great at that.

And oftentimes it's because we elevate things above the gospel. We elevate our preferences, our privileges, and our priorities. And we make church more about what we want to get out of church than what the church was created to do, which was push forth the shine of light in the darkness. I can't say forth this morning. Push forth the kingdom of God. And so we decided to merge asking the question, are we better together? And on the foundation of 1 Corinthians 15, where Paul says, I remind you of what is most important. That Jesus came, that he lived, that he died, that he was buried, and that he rose again. That is the gospel, and that is what we unite for. And in order for us to do that, in order for us to forge a community that is united in the midst of a very complex time in our world,

we have to remind ourselves that the gospel is more important than our privileges, preferences, and priorities. So if you were on the grace board when we started talking about merging, would you mind standing up for me? Yeah. Some blood, sweat, and tears have been invested from these people. If you were, yeah, give them a round of applause. Stay standing up. Stay standing up. Stay standing. Well, Catherine, if you want to sit down, you can sit down. I was trying to honor you, Catherine. If you were on the campus board when we started talking about merging, would you mind standing up for me? Blood, sweat, and tears in the room. How about this? This is going to be a blast from the past. Some of you might not even remember this. If you were on a thing called a transition team.

If you were on the transition team. Michelle, stand up. I see you back there. Yeah. Uh-huh. We had a team. A whole team called a transition team. How about if you were on the team that helped me write the mission, vision, and core values of this church? The mission, vision, values team. Jeremy's standing. Jeremy was there. Others? Where's Melissa McKay? Yeah. All right. See? Give everybody a round of applause. All right. You all can be seated. I just wanted to just acknowledge these individuals that were involved in some late night, early morning, phone calls out of nowhere, and their families. Samantha, you want to stand up? Everybody just stand up. Samantha, Samantha, stand up. Stand up. Stand up. Stand up. A lot of sacrifice and faithfulness was used by God to form this newly found church where we value uniting for the sake of the gospel.

For those of us that were around during that time when the church merge happened, I tried my hardest, and they tried their hardest to get here. I tried to get the Lewis's here, but it just didn't work out. So real quick, I'd love for you to watch this video from Pastor Matt that he sent to us. Well, hey there, Canvas Community Church. I have to be honest with you. I wish I was there in person. I'd love to see you as you're seeing me on the screen. Ryan was gracious and actually offered for Lori and I to bring us out, and that's just not working in our schedule, unfortunately. But he also said I could have three minutes to just address you and encourage you, so I'd like to do that. Three years of consistent growth.

Consistent growth numerically, financially, and while we're not about nickels and noses, those numbers represent souls and commitment. Well done. That's encouraging. Eugene Peterson says that maturity is about a long journey in the same direction. And I think that's true both for an individual as well as for a congregation. Now, three years is not necessarily long, but it is a significant mile marker. Every time I get an email or a text or see a Facebook post and I see the baptisms that are going on, and we're talking new life over three years continuing. When I hear that there are new people being discipled and how to understand the Scriptures and be able to communicate them through the preaching event, that's discipleship beyond just some cognitive knowledge. It's about some use of gifts and real transformation. It's about depth.

And then the number of volunteers that you're celebrating today is about scope. And so we have new life, we have depth, and we have scope. That's exactly what you look for as you shepherd a church, as you care for a church. And I have to be honest, I suspect that at least one of the primary reasons that we've seen these three years of concerted and continuous growth in depth and numbers is because you've chosen to focus on spiritual formation. I understand you're in a three-year process of looking again at various ways of means of grace, of connecting with God. And it warms my heart when I hear your theme of be with, become like, and do what Jesus did. Being with Jesus in order to, excuse me, become like Jesus. Isn't that really what Paul meant when he talked about beholding him, that we're changed from one glory into another glory?

Be with Jesus, to become with Jesus, resulting in doing what Jesus did. Jesus said, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. I mean, it's just, it's the natural outflow. And so for me to be able to sit back here and look on to the ongoing growth and stewardship of Canvas Community Church, this collective who are following Jesus together, I'm encouraged. I'm blessed. In a sense, it's fulfilling what Paul talked about in Colossians 127 when he talked about the riches of this mystery. And then he defined it, Christ in you, the hope of glory. So I have a favor to ask as I wrap up my three minutes. And if I took a little bit much, oh, well, when you, I can't be there. But when you see someone who you think if I were there or Lori was there and we'd give them a hug, would you give them a hug for me and just say, hey, this one's from Matt.

Canvas Community Church, I'm proud of you. You've done well. Keep on keeping on. Be with him. Become like him. Do what he did. Now unto him who is able. God bless. Save the hugs for after. Yeah, that's Pastor Matt. For those of you that don't know, he was integral in the merge process and he is the sage behind everything that's here. He is the gray hair that gives us some, a little bit of, you know, wisdom and yeah, that all of the things. So as we, as we, as two churches decided to merge in order to value this, the uniting for the sake of the gospel, another value that came out is the value that we cultivate spiritual gifts to serve others. And this really came out of both, both churches. As we came together to merge and talked about our histories and what God had done in our past experiences, we realized that both churches had had seasons where we'd felt the difficulty of both church structures being built upon like a singular leader at the top of the org chart.

A staff pastor that was in charge of kind of pushing forward everything that happened. It was like the weight of everything fell on one person in the past with both churches. And so as we decided to create a new church, we decided to create a church where we would share the responsibility of casting vision, of owning ministries and opportunities. And really this comes out of this biblical principle that we find in Ephesians chapter four, that we're intended to equip the saints to do the work of the ministry. That pastors and leaders, their job isn't always just to do ministry, but to help equip others to do ministry. And each one of us have gifts that God is, is desiring to use to bring forth his mission and purpose in the world. Hey buddy. And, and we need to, you want me to hold you?

You just want to hold my leg. That's great. Um, hold you. Okay. One, two, three. Oh, yeah. Everybody's talking for you. Um, and so we built our, we intentionally built our church structure with the members at the top. And with volunteer ministry leaders having a lot of decision making power because we want you, we want to help equip you to do the ministry that God's called you to do. Does that make sense? So if you are a member of this church, would you stand up? Can we clap for our members?

And, uh, I also want to acknowledge our current board, although they are, you guys keep standing, keep standing, keep standing. Sorry. Actually, no, sit down, sit down, sit down. Hey, do you want to go see your, your BB? Yeah. Would that make you happy? There she is. Hey, buddy. Our current board member. Yeah. Now that the members are sitting down, why does our current board stand up? Hours of meetings and budget building. And, and each of our members oversee an area of ministry where they are helping equip the people below them to do the work of the ministry. And those people, those volunteer ministry leaders that do far, um, that do hours and hours of work and blood and sweat and tears, um, are Kevin Sullivan. I don't know that he's here. Yeah. Is he here?

Yeah. Probably not. Probably not. I didn't think he was going to be here. Hey, buddy, just hug my leg. Let's do that. Uh, so Kevin Sullivan has overseen as a volunteer, hundreds of thousands of dollars of work on our building. Um, with a team of volunteers that do incredible work, we have a new roof, a new parking lot, a new HVAC system. Um, and, um, do you want to go to mom real quick and then I'll, we'll switch, we'll switch, go to mom and then I'll get you when she's, when it's her turn. Um, and so we've got Kevin Sullivan at the building, Jill Keister leading our women's ministry. Give her a round of applause. Uh, Melissa McKay overseeing all of our passages classes. My lovely mother that oversees the prayer team.

Quinsat is sick and at home, but he oversees our men's ministry and our benevolence team. Jamie Jackson does our welcome team, our safety team and our legacy team. And he's fully a volunteer and probably doing things that volunteers shouldn't be doing right now. So that's just him. He's just a worker. Um, Mike Gad overseeing our outreach. Where's he at? Helen Reinhardt makes that all of the wonderful cafe things happen on a regular basis.

And, uh, I don't, we've so many more people, Jim and Sally Ferringer. Are you guys in here? Yeah, they clean the building. They do so many incredible things behind the scenes. And so, like I said, this is a value are you guys can sit down. We value cultivating spiritual gifts to serve others. We value pushing leadership down. And we find this in the Scriptures in first Peter chapter four, starting verse 10. He says, "Each of you should use whatever gifts you have received to serve others, as faithful stewards of God's grace in its various forms, as we've seen, various forms. If anyone speaks, they should do so as one who speaks the very words of God. If anyone serves, they should do so with the strength that God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen." Amen. Amen. Amen.

My hope is built on nothing less Than Jesus' blood and righteousness I dare not trust the sweetest frame But wholly trust in Jesus' name Christ alone On earth's tongue We've made you strong And the Savior's love Through the storm He is Lord, Lord alone

When darkness seems to hide His face All I rest on His unchanging grace In every high and stormy gale My anchor holds within My anchor holds within the veil Oh, Lord, Christ alone Cornerstone The weak makes strong In the Savior's love Through the storm He is Lord, Lord of all And He is Lord Lord of all Christ alone Christ alone Christ alone The cornerstone Cornerstone We've made strong In the Savior's love Through the storm He is Lord Lord, Lord of all Our gracious God in heaven Amen You shall come With trumpet sound Oh, may I then In Him be found Dressed in His righteousness Alone Faultless stand Before the throne Lord of all Lord of all Christ alone Christ alone Born as Lord Born as Lord He is Lord And the Savior's love Christ alone

He is Lord Lord of all Christ alone Christ alone Christ alone Our cornerstone We commit strong In the Savior's love Through the storm He is Lord Lord of all He is our Lord Amen Amen Yes, give Him praise In this place This morning Amen Our cornerstone Christ is my first foundation The rock on which I stand When everything around me is shaken I've never been I've never been more mad That I put my faith in Jesus Cause He's never let me down He's faithful for generations So why would He fail now? He won't He won't I've still got joy in chaos I've got peace that makes no sense So why won't be going under I'm not held by my own strength I've built my life on Jesus And He's never let me down He's faithful in every season So I would keep him now He won't He won't He won't fail He won't fail He won't He won't He won't

Christ is my firm foundation The rock on which I stand When everything around me is safe I've never been more glad I put my faith in Jesus He's never let me down He's faithful through generations So I would he fail He won't He won't He won't fail He won't fail Yeah, you're in blue My house was built on you I say with you I'm gonna make it Sing it like you believe it Make it with you My house was built on you I say with you I'm gonna make it through I'm gonna make it through My house is built on you I'm gonna make it through My house was built on you Christ is my first foundation The right part which I stand When everything around me stays there I've never been more glad I put my place in Jesus

He's never let me down He's faithful through generation So why would he fail now He won't He won't He won't fail He won't fail He won't fail

I love it. Keep up the energy. We're going to need it. We are on schedule, believe it or not. I'm trying to worship Jesus and also make sure that I don't keep these babies longer than an hour. All right. So we've talked about what God has done to bring us together as a church. We've talked about how we structure ourselves so that all of us have the opportunity to use the gifts that God has given us to serve the church. And why do we do that? What is the purpose of all of us coming together on a regular basis? It is our mission statement, which is inviting real people with real lives into a Christ-centered community. Everything we do is about this, about creating a culture where real people with real lives. That's all of us, right? And we've all been in churches where we pretend like

everything's not, like we're perfect, but we're real. Real people with real lives centered on Christ. And that song we sang that Christ is our firm foundation because he will not fail us. And our lives will be wrecked with storms and difficulties and trials and tribulations. People in, and tornadoes. Yes, ma'am. Hopefully not. Pray against it. Hedge of protection around this building. Unless none of us are here, then the insurance money could build a nicer building. I don't know. Whatever you want to do, Lord. Christ is our firm foundation. He is the center of this community. And if he stops being the center of this community, we should shut the doors of this building. Right after we hear Christ talk about the rains will come, the storms, the floods, the winds, but those who build their life on the rock will stand. Right after that, we read this

from Matthew chapter 11 that we have been invited. He says, We want to create a culture where people can hear that message and step into that reality that they can take on the yoke of Christ, that gives them release from the burdens of this world and hope for the future. And a huge majority of our volunteer hours go into creating a culture where this can happen. And so I just want to say thank you to just a large, large number of our volunteers. So if you serve on the cafe team at all, will you stand up for me? Yes. Stay standing up. What about the prayer team? If you're on the prayer team, can you stand up? What about our first impressions and safety team? There's got to be more of you, but that's okay. Obviously, our worship team is back here.

You guys can be seated. We have more teams that we're going to highlight in a little bit, but right now I just want to emphasize the reality that it takes so many people to pull off this thing that we do. And, um, we regularly get feedback surveys from our guests. Um, and we, where we asked them what their experience was like, are we embodying this reality? Are we creating a culture where real people with real lives can learn to follow Jesus together? And I just wanted to read, uh, one, we've gotten many back and believe it or not, um, they're all positive, right? And we know, we know how much people love to get a link where they get to give their feedback. And so it's the fact that they're positive is great. I just wanted to read this anonymous, um, feedback from one of the, our

first time guests. And this is a testament to all of those people that just stood up and more creating an environment where real people with real lives can learn to follow Jesus. They said, we loved our first visit so much that my husband and I were excited to go again. And we both have never felt that way about church. The atmosphere is great. And our child was so excited to be in kids' class, which makes us feel even more comfortable. And so I'm just so thankful for our volunteers that create spaces for people to come in with their burdens, with their difficult, uh, struggles in life where they can just have a safe space where they can explore faith in Jesus. The one who, who come, who invites all who are weary and heavy laden to come and to have rest.

Um, and so I'm just thankful for each and every one of you. Donovan, you want to thank some of your teams, right? Is that what's next on the script? All right. You guys doing okay? Yeah. I'm excited to be here this morning. I know I always say that, but I really mean it this week. I'm really excited to celebrate what this church has been because it is incredible what God is, how God has taken us and made it work, right? Because if we're in charge, it ain't working, right? We can all agree on that. All right. Uh, I really wanted to invite them all to the front of the stage, our tech team, but I didn't want them all to quit and not come back next week. So our tech team, I want to thank you guys. Uh, yeah. And you guys clap for them.

They hide in the back. They hide in the crevices and the little rooms. They keep, it's even dark back there. But I tell you what, when the mic goes off or the guitar, you can't hear anymore. What's the first thing everybody does? Snap your neck back and look at the sound booth, right? And they know that, but these guys, and it's a small crew, they work tirelessly. Um, and it, it wouldn't, it would sound more like this. All right. So thank you, tech team. Cultivate youth staff. Please stand up. Don't clap for me. Don't clap for me. I just stand up, stand up. My wife is somewhere making hot dogs. I think Eugene. Great. I want you guys to look at our youth staff. These are people that have committed many, many Sundays, many tubing trips, a week-long summer

camp, winter tubing trips, bowling nights out to spend with our students, with your students, to be the face of Jesus to them, to love on them, to, to help them grow and who they are to listen, right? Sometimes it's easier to listen to or talk with a youth staff than it is your parents to listen. Emily and Luke, get up. What are you guys doing? Where's Katie Calhoun? She's probably hiding in the back somewhere too. Now we can thank them because they love our teenagers. They love our students. And it surprises me every week when they all say yes on planning center, they're coming back. So thank you all. Cultivate youth staff. Hey, cultivate students. Why don't you stand up and clap for them too? How many, how many students we got back there? Oh, they're all over. They're all over.

A clap for your youth staff. Thank you all very much. Just to wrap up my way too long of a section as it is right now. Jared, one more time, buddy, on your feet. Hey, you guys don't know this. Some of you do. When we merged, Jared's kept the volunteer duties of taking care of our youth, which he had done before through some of Grace Community Church's things. And he kept that going. Students, thank Jared. He is still faithful. He still teaches several times a month. He loves his kids. He cares about students, not kids. Sorry. Jared, our youth ministry would not be what it is today without you. And I thank you. And I love you, brother. All right, Michelle. I search the world to my head hurt just to find out your ways better.

Oh, oh, your ways better. Oh, oh, your ways better. Oh, Lord, your ways better. Jesus, your ways better. Lord, I am so thankful for the waves that you blessed me. Everything you said, making waves like a jet ski. You love every part of me, even when I was messy. Now I see the heart in your beauty, so I can finally sing. I'm your over driver provider. Your weight always gets me higher. Even on my darkest days, you're a lighter, my Messiah. Oh, Lord, I need you now more than ever. Would you put my heart back together? I search the world to my head hurt just to find out your ways better. Oh, oh, oh, your ways better. Oh, oh, your ways better. Woo! Good morning, everyone. As the children's pastor, it is my extreme privilege to recognize an incredible group of volunteers.

I'm going to have you stand and then stay standing. If you have served in the past year anywhere from nursery to elementary school, could you please stand? Each week, you come and you give your talents and your kindness in your heart to our kids. I know that there are Sundays that it would be so much easier to sit in the service with coffee or to sleep in. But you choose to show up every week and you give our kids a taste of the love of Christ. You give them comforting hugs. You do crafts with them. You make it possible for parents to sit in here and not worry about their kids. And I cannot thank you enough. Your selfless choice means that parents can listen to the message and not worry. My hope has always been with Canvas in the children's ministry that this will not be a church that you have to drag your children to.

But this will be a church that the kids are excited to go to. And just last night, I had a friend over at my house and she was telling me about how they weren't sure if they were going to make it to church this morning. And their son was devastated. I have had so many parents come up to me and say, we were planning on sleeping in. We'd had a long week and our kids woke us up and said, it's Sunday. Get up. We have to go to church. That, that is incredible. And that is because of you. You, there is no greater gift than you can give a child than a glimpse of the love of Jesus. And you do that every Sunday. I cannot thank you enough. I have called you last minute.

You all know this. I have begged you to come in. I have put you two Sundays back to back, not realizing it. I have done a million things and yet you still come and you still show these kids love. And you still put up with me. And I just want to thank you so much. Where, where are the kids at? Kids, I don't know where you are scattered around, but I need you to do me a favor. I need you to look around. Find someone near you that is standing. These are your teachers. I want you to run over and give them a high five and tell them thank you. Can you do that wherever you are? Come on in. If you're playing with toys, come find a volunteer and give them a high five for me.

Tell them thank you. Tell them thank you. Good job, guys. Hi. Oh, thank you. You guys. I just can't thank you enough from the bottom of my heart. From me on behalf of every child who has walked through our doors and every family who has been touched by your kindness. I want to say thank you. Thank you for your service, for your compassion, for your unwavering commitment to our family, and for showing the love of Christ to our kids. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

I was the age of those kids. We were singing songs in the church about you're one in the spirit. There was one. And I don't think you truly appreciate unity until it's gone. And I think everybody in this church recognizes the difficulty and the sacrifice required to make unity last. To make that koinonia a real thing. To live an impartial, yielded community. It means someone has to model the humility to move only as quickly as everyone can go with us. Right? That's the path these leaders have taken. And we pitched together and got a little gift for the three of you to thank you. Where's Ryan? I know you're nearby. All right. We'll give it to Ryan when he shows up. One for Donovan. For the pastors. It's something about golf. I'll just tell you that. Okay. So thank you very much. This wouldn't be possible without the pastors leading it. Thanks, man.

Thank you, Kent. Go ahead and stand up. I'm gonna need you guys to sing really loud on this one. Cause I might not make it through. I love you, Lord. Oh, your mercy never fails me. All my days, I've been held in your hands. From the moment that I wake up. Until I lay my head. Oh, I will sing. Of the good of you, Lord. I love you, Lord. Oh, your mercy never fails me. I love you, Lord. Oh, your mercy never fails me. All my days, I've been held in your hands. I've been held in your hands. From the moment that I wake up. Until I lay my head. Oh, I will sing. Of the goodness of God. This is our testimony today. Come on. All my life, you have been faithful. All my life, you have been so, so good.

With every breath that I ever hang. Oh, I will sing. Of the goodness of God. I love your voice. For you have led me through the fire. And in darkness nights, you were close like no other. I've known you as a father. I've known you as my friend. I've known you as a father. I've known you as a father. I've known you as a father.

Cause your goodness is running after. It's running after me. Cause your goodness is running after. It's running after me. With our lives laid down. We surrender now. We give you everything. Cause your goodness is running after. It's running after me. All my life. Come on, sing it out. All my life. You have been so, so good. With every breath that I have made. Oh, I will sing. Oh, we're going to sing. Oh, we're going to sing. Oh, we're going to sing.

A passages class. Have you ever taught a passages class? Well, yeah, whatever. Just do whatever you want. If you are on the legacy leadership team, can you stand up? Talk about relying on the living and written word of God. We have a legacy ministry team, a 60 plus or is it 55 plus? I want to get it right. They can't hear somebody. So that's terrible. That was not me. That was not me. But what? Yeah, we're done. It's over. I lost the room. What I want to do, though, is I want to honor them because at the age when most people are thinking about retirement, sitting back, relaxing, enjoying life, they are continually involved in ministry. When they could say, hey, I had a turn doing ministry and it's my turn to take a break.

They keep doing ministry. And that is an incredible testimony. Men's and women's ministry team. Do you guys mind standing? The leaders, leaders of the men's and women's ministry. These are all ministries that happen in order to make this value a lived reality. And they all are aimed at helping us grow in our obedience to Jesus. Lastly, I'm just going to, we just got to go, right? Yeah. All right. Vision statement. Cultivating God's kingdom by proclaiming Jesus clearly and obeying Jesus boldly. We don't just want the kingdom of God to be contained to our walls, but we want to go out. The vision is about belief, not just believing the right things, but putting our faith into action. Jesus says this, you are the light of the world. A town built on a hill cannot be hidden.

Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead, they put it on its stand and they give lights. It gives light to everyone in the house. In the same way, we brothers and sisters in Christ should let our light shine before others. That they may see our good deeds and glorify God. And so on this little handout, you'll see a few highlights of what God's done. One of my favorite things that has happened is that we've given over $170,000 away to other ministries in the last three years. And it's not just dollars, but hours of volunteers at the kids club at blazing hope at, um, and all of the different ministries that we are involved in. It's money. It's time. It's energy. It's us going outside the walls of our church to be salt and light to the earth.

Uh, so you'll see the things on the sheet. You can look at this. There's also a QR code. If you want to get more involved, uh, this whole service is not a pitch for you to get more involved, but I hope that you're inspired and encouraged by all that God is doing in and through our community. So church, imagine what we might've missed out on. Hey, worship team. Donovan loves you. And he's going to tell you that after the service, because the children are about to lose their minds. Hang on one second. Okay, go for it. Go for it. On a volunteer appreciation. I'll be quick. I'll be quick. These guys have been here for three hours on Thursday night after work. They were here. Most of them are here at seven 30 this morning, but not just this weekend.

Every week they faithfully serve. They push for excellence because they love you guys and they love God. I did not want them to be unrecognized. I love you guys. I do.

Kids love them too. They do. They do. They do. And speaking of which, I'm going to queue them up. Okay. So imagine church, what we might've missed out on. If we decided that our preferences and our priorities and our privileges were more important than the kingdom of God. Look what God has done through a little bit of dying to ourselves to put his kingdom first. And imagine what graves he might turn into gardens in our lives and in our communities if we keep our eyes fixed on him. If we follow his example of sacrificial love, laying down our lives for the sake of others and for the demonstration of his coming kingdom. It's chaos today and last three years. And I searched the world, but it couldn't fail me. Man's empty praise and treasures that fade are never enough.

When you came alive. And you put me back together. And every desire is now satisfied. Here in your love. Oh, there's nothing better than you. There's nothing better than you, Lord. There's nothing. Nothing is better than you.

And I'm not afraid. To show you my weakness. My failures and flaws. Lord, you've seen them all. And you still call me free. Because the God of the mountains. Well, he's the God of the valley. And there's not a place where your mercy and grace won't find me again. Come on. Oh, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you.

Lord, there's nothing. Oh, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing. But nothing is better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you.

Lord, you turn seas into highways. Lord, you turn seas into highways. Lord, you turn seas into highways. You're the only one who cares. You're the only one who cares. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you.

One last time you turn our graves. You turn graves into gardens. You turn graves into gardens. You turn bones into gardens. You turn bones into armies. You turn seas into highways. You turn seas into highways. You're the only one who cares. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you. Lord, there's nothing better than you.

But you guys are welcome to leave. I love you all. We love you. I love our church. It's a wonderful place to be. Go be together. You turn mourning to dancing. You give beauty for ashes. You turn shame into glory. You're the only one you can. Turn our grave. You turn graves into gardens. You turn bones into armies. You turn seas into highways. You're the only one who came. Turn our grave. You turn graves into gardens. You turn bones into armies. You turn seas into highways. You turn seas into highways. You're the only one who came. You're the only one who came. You're the only one who came.
