PTW COMMUNITY: Stay Together to Grow
2025-10-13
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6duINJ9Veos

How are you guys doing this morning? Wow, that was not good. How are you all doing this morning? Okay, thank you, thank you. Excited to celebrate baptism today. One thing we believe here at Canvas Community Church, and hopefully in all churches, is that the Holy Spirit still speaks to His people. And as we were baptizing this morning, I had one of our leaders come up and just encourage me to kind of let people know this morning that we're going to open up the baptism at the end of service. So if you have never been baptized, if you believe that Jesus is the Son of God, that He died for your sins to provide forgiveness and reconciliation to the Father, if you are willing to surrender your life to Him as Lord and leader, and you want to demonstrate that through baptism this morning, I don't want that to be an emotional decision, and so we're going to wait until the end.

You have about 37 and a half minutes to think about that, to pray about that. And so if that's something that you want to do this morning, you've never done it before and you want to make that decision publicly, we would love to celebrate with you. Don't, again, like I said, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna have Marissa come up here and play the same hymn over and over and over again until somebody finally says, like, "I'll be baptized again so we can go to lunch." Like, that's not what we're doing. But if the Spirit is at work in your life and this is a decision that you don't want to wait on, that you are ready to make today. The Scriptures say that today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your heart. And so if you are hearing from the Lord today that it is time for you to surrender your life, I don't care if you were, I don't care if you were passed out drunk at a bar last night, if you are hearing today that it is your day to surrender to the Lord.

There is nothing that you need to do beforehand to receive the free gift of salvation from Jesus. You don't need to clean yourself up. You don't need to figure it out. All you need to do is surrender. And so if you're ready to do that, whether you are stumbling in off the street from the bar or whether you've been raised in church your whole life and you have obeyed all the rules and you are just now realizing that obedience to the rules are not enough, whatever that might be for you. So I'll leave that there for now. We are going to hop into week four of our eight-week series on spiritual practices, the spiritual practices of community and service. And we are doing these series built around the practices of Jesus because we want to be doers of the word and not just hearers or affirmers or agreeers of the word, right? We want to be people who obey the Scriptures, who do what God has invited us to do.

And so we're focusing for the next eight weeks on community and service. We're wrapping up that kind of community aspect of the series today, and we will hop into service next week. And what is the point of God drawing us into a family, a community, if that community does not serve each other and outside of ourselves? And so we've tied these two practices together, and we want you in your small groups to be thinking about how God might be inviting you to serve as a community. Whether you're serving within the household of God, whether you know brothers and sisters who are struggling, who need help, who need encouragement, who need some act of service, whether you want to serve inside the community or you want to go out into our community, people who might not know Jesus and serve them.

We want you to think about ways that you might serve our community. And there's a Sunday, and I am a planner. You guys, I don't know if you know that about me or not, but I'm a planner. I like to plan. And there's a Sunday at the end of this series that I have nothing planned for. And I did that on purpose, hoping that you all might have testimonies of the things that God has done in and through you as you've come together into community and look to serve one another. And so if, as you are meeting together in smaller groups and serving and building God's kingdom outside of these walls, if you have testimonies that you want to share, please let us know. We want to do that. We want to honor that, take a whole Sunday to kind of celebrate that. And if we don't have any testimonies to share, then we'll figure it out. All right?

We got testimonies. All right, Ballinger, you're up for that Sunday. I'll put you on. So, so far we've talked about that God designed his people that we would form tight-knit communities around a table that looks like families. What we read in the passage in 1 Corinthians, we are one body. It is a multicultural, multi-ethnic, multi-economic family of God. Some are slaves, some are free, some are Jews, some are Gentiles, but we are united by our surrender to King Jesus. And this community, because it's like family, it should move beyond shallow relationships. And many of us that grew up in the church, we know that a lot of church relationships are shallow. And so what we want to do here as a community at Canvas is we want to move past those shallow relationships. We want to share our joys and our sorrows with one another.

We want to move towards confessing our sins to one another. This will require lots of time and intentionality, but it will produce the fruit that Jesus promises. And so even if we succeed at doing all the things that we've talked about so far, making a family around the table, sharing our joys and sorrows, confessing our sins, there is one kind of lurking temptation and excuse for us to walk away from community that will stay in the darkness. One more obstacle lurking in the shadow, and that is conflict and disagreement. It's so easy for us to walk away from the community that we form the moment that somebody says something that we don't like to hear or does something that offends us. And what we're gonna talk about this morning is this discipline, this practice of staying in community even when it's hard.

Of remaining committed to unity and community even when difficult things arise, even when emotional conflicts arise. So that's where we're headed. Sound good? Cool. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we are grateful for another opportunity to look at your word this morning. Open our eyes to see what you have for us. Holy Spirit, speak in the ways that you wanna speak. Translate my words into whatever words these people need to hear. May each individual feel as if they heard from you, not because I have said anything eloquent or creative, but because the Holy Spirit speaks when the word of God is open. So do what you wanna do in this place. God, even now as people may be considering baptism, if you are drawing someone to the waters of baptism this morning, make that evidently and abundantly clear in their lives.

I pray all of this in Jesus' name, amen. How many of you are familiar with the concept of cancel culture? Anybody? Heard of the term, right? Okay, cancel culture is this idea where somebody does something or says something wrong, or we go back through their Twitter timeline from 15 years ago and find out something they said when they were 13, hyped up on Adderall and Monster, and then we cancel them for that, right? I tried really hard to find a specific example of cancel culture where we take somebody that's kind of in the public eye, and we kick them out of the public eye because of something they said or did or thought or whatever, and I couldn't even find a good example that I thought wouldn't offend at least someone in the room, because I could pick an example that I thought was silly, and then somebody in the room would be like,

no, they should have been canceled for that. What are you talking about? Right? So I didn't pick any specific examples, but I just wanted to bring up this underlying culture that most of us are aware of to point out the fact that I think we live in a world where if someone doesn't like you or disagrees with you, they can discredit you and remove you from the community that you're a part of. And in this culture, even apologies attempts to grow, attempts to say, "Hey, I was wrong. I'm sorry." They're mocked and ridiculed and laughed at, and you're pushed even further out onto the margins. I think this kind of underlying idea of cancel culture reminds us that we live in a culture that is addicted to outrage and allergic to reconciliation. And although this is a culture that most of us live in, we all, or a lot of us,

many of us in the room have surrendered to a rabbi who says that they will know the world outside of us, will know that we are his disciples by our love for one another, which means cancel culture and walking away from relationships does not happen in the church. Right? Cancel culture, walking away from relationships when disagreements happen, that does not happen in the church. None of you have heard stories about churches splitting up over what color the carpet was going to be. We do not participate in this kind of silliness in Christ's church, right? You guys picking up on my sarcasm? Okay, thank you. We're being sarcastic. So, I think my thesis for today is that in a world addicted to outrage and allergic to reconciliation, in a community of people that say we're surrendered to a rabbi who says, "The world outside of these walls will know that you are my disciples by your love for one another."

That we have this clear command from Jesus that will set us up as a counter witness to the world around us. This is a perfect opportunity for us to shine a light in the darkness. If we are saying that the culture around us is addicted to outrage and conflict and allergic to reconciliation, then what better witness of the gospel of kingdom of God if his church stays united in the midst of difficulty and disagreement and conflict? So the question becomes, if my thesis is, and this is what the world is like outside the walls of the church, and this is our invitation to shine a light, to be salt to the earth, a city on a hill. If this is our invitation, the question becomes, will we take advantage of this opportunity? Will we prioritize developing a diverse and unified community that chooses to stay together through significant conflict and disagreement?

I'm not talking about carpet color. I don't think our church would split over carpet color. But we are going to have, if we, yeah. You guys haven't even left, and we don't have floors on half the building, so. So I don't think we're going to split over this, but when it comes to significant emotionally charged topics, are we going to commit to remain with one another in community? The invitation of Jesus is to intentionally work towards creating a laboratory of sacrificial love, where we all work towards this idea of laying down our preferences and our priorities in order to stay united with one another, even when everything wants us to leave. And instead, I think we often form echo chambers of our own preferences. The invitation is a laboratory of love, and we often settle for an echo chamber of our own preferences.

And if we just look at the example of Jesus, he had 12 of his closest followers together. They followed him everywhere they went. Think about the difficult circumstances of their life on the road. And two of those disciples were a tax collector and a zealot. Could not have had stronger opinions that disagreed with one another. And the invitation to Jesus is you lay down those opinions, and you form a community that is built on me, my body and my blood. So will we take this opportunity? Or will we take the easy road? One of these options is easy, but will deform us from the image of Jesus. The other is extremely difficult, but it leads to life. So let's hop into 1 Corinthians 3, where we're going to see Paul kind of get a little bit angry and angsty at some people that have divided for some silly reasons.

And we're going to see what we can't learn about staying together in the midst of tense disagreements and difficulty. 1 Corinthians 3, starting in verse 1. Paul says, "Brothers and sisters, I could not address you as people who live by the Spirit, but as people who are still worldly, mere infants in Christ. I gave you milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for it. Indeed, you still are not ready for it. You are still worldly. For since there is jealousy and quarreling among you, are you not worthy, worldly? Are you not acting like mere humans? For when one says, "I follow Paul," and another, "I follow Apollos," are you not mere humans? What, after all, is Apollos? And what is Paul? Only servants through whom you came to believe. As the Lord has assigned to each his task, I planted the seed Apollos watered, but God has been making it grow."

So Paul here is lovingly rebuking these people who think that they are varsity-level spiritual people. If you were to go to the Corinthian church, you would see gifts of the Spirit happening in some miraculous ways, things that we've only read about as American Christians. They were doing some really powerful experiences, worship, all of this stuff was going on, and they thought they were mature. They thought they were godly because God was using them to accomplish big, powerful, important things, and Paul, as their spiritual father, steps in. And he offers them a loving rebuke. I love that he starts with brothers and sisters right before he calls them babies. All right? That's his pastoral heart coming through. He's like, "Listen, I love you all so, so much. You're infants." You think you are varsity because of your services and your gifts, but you are toddlers at best.

And what I find so fascinating about this is, as you go throughout the book of 1 Corinthians, you're gonna find out that there's a million reasons why Paul could have called them immature. Right? There's some pretty significant sexual sin happening in the Corinthian church. There's some pretty horrific things happening with the way the rich people are treating the poor people. There's like some significant sin happening in the Corinth church. And when Paul says you're spiritual infants, you're immature, he doesn't say because of your sexual sin. He doesn't say because of, he says because you're not united with one another. He says because you're splitting off fellowship with one another over who your favorite preacher is. This is nonsense. This is silly. You are refusing to stay united around the thing that matters most, God doing the work in you.

And instead you are siphoning off into other little tables based on your favorite preacher. You are creating echo chambers of your own preference when Jesus has invited you to create a laboratory of sacrificial love. He mentions three different teachers, and the point here is that they were kind of picking their favorite packaging of the gospel or their favorite gifting. Paul had a different gifting than Apollos, and Apollos had a different calling than Peter, and they kind of packaged the gospel in different ways. And the reality is, as I was thinking about this this week, is that we still do this today. We have different groups of preachers and different denominations of the way they package the theology. We follow them on YouTube or on social media, and we're like, "This guy, this group of people, they're the ones that are actually preaching the gospel."

If I have to hear one more time a Christian come to me and say, "Well, I went to a church because they're actually preaching the Bible." I'm like, "Okay, find me, list 10 churches in our community that aren't preaching the Bible." It's not that they're not preaching the Bible, it's that they're not preaching the Bible the way that you want it to be preached. It's that they're not preaching the Bible based on your preferences, and they're not talking about the sins that you find most bad more often than not. They're probably actually talking about the sins that you struggle with more, and that's why you've decided that you don't want to hear what they have to say. You'd rather go to the person that's going to talk about the people you don't like and pad you from your own disobedience.

And Paul says, "No, we all need to be together." We all need to be together because we point out each other's blind spots, and it's God that's doing the work in and through us. And if we pack, if we siphon ourselves off into these smaller communities based on our preferences, we'll end up creating echo chambers that lead to immaturity. And Paul says this, he says, "You are infants." I call this the cycle of immaturity. I think I have it on the screen, but this is ultimately what happens. It still happens to this day is disagreement or conflict arise. And when disagreement and conflict arises in community, we really have one of two options. We can divide or we can stay and reconcile. And what the people in Corinth decided to do is when disagreement and conflict arises, they said, "We're gonna divide.

We're gonna go based on the person that we like, the group of people that we like. We're gonna follow this version of the gospel rather than this version of the gospel." And what tends to happen is when we tribalize, we throw rocks at the other side, even when they're supposed to be in our family, one body, right? And so we're throwing rocks at each other, we are disagreeing and we divide, and that division leads to one of two things, uniformity or isolation. So uniformity happens when we divide and we just group together with the people that agree with us about the conflict or disagreement. We're right, they're wrong, can you believe they, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. We're all, it looks like unity. Here's the different, here's the struggle. The enemy of God deceives us, he counterfeits the kingdom, and uniformity looks like unity for a while, but it does not produce the maturity that unity produces.

Uniformity produces immaturity because we all think that we're God's gift to creation, we're varsity believers, and we need somebody to step in and say, "Actually, you're still in diapers." And maybe you're mature in this area and this area, but you're in diapers in this area, but if we're all mature in the same area and immature in the other areas, and we gather together around one table, we never talk about the areas we're immature. We only just puff ourselves up based on our maturity in certain areas. You understand what I'm saying? So disagreement and conflict arises, and if we choose division, it will lead to uniformity or isolation. We divide so much. What happens is we get into this group of people that look a lot like us, and that's going well for a while, but human beings are human beings.

And like, no matter how much they're like you, they'll still say something that offends you, and then another disagreement arises. And then you get to choose there. Am I going to stick with this group of people or I'm going to divide? And sometimes we divide and we divide so much that we are by ourselves thinking we're the only ones. Right? Like the prophet Elijah, God, I'm the only one doing the thing. God's like, "Really? I don't think so." It leads to isolation. And now because social media exists, we can isolate by ourselves in a room and we can find a fake community of people online that agree with everything that we agree with. And the end result is immaturity. We're childish. We're in diapers. This is much easier and it's much faster, but it will deform us. It's like eating fast food every single day.

Right? Uniformity looks like unity. It's like a Big Mac looks like food. Right? I love me a Big Mac. I'm not saying, but I'm saying if you eat a Big Mac every single day, it has the appearance of nutrients. It has the appearance of giving you the sustenance that you need, but ultimately it will leave you deformed and unhealthy. And that's the same thing that happens when we regularly choose to leave when conflict arises instead of stay and work through conflict. Now, real quick, before I move on to my next point, I do want to offer some nuance for those of you that have been in some spiritually abusive relationships. Some situations are very unhealthy, and they are worth leaving. Some spiritual leaders will use this message that I'm preaching right now to make you feel like you're the problem and you have to shut up and believe what they say, and if you leave, you're ungodly.

And so I want to be careful that there are some situations that are abusive and unhealthy, and it is good to leave those, and it's good to leave those quickly. And there are other situations where you work so hard to reconcile, you sit at the table, you look across the aisle, you talk, you talk, you talk, and ultimately, there's no progress on either side. There are times when you might be called by God to leave that table, but you do so with blessing in your heart. You say, "I love you, brother. You're a brother in Christ. You're a sister in Christ. I love you, but I need to go." And it's probably better for both of us. This happens in the Scriptures. Paul leaves John Mark behind on a missions trip, right? He's like, "This is not working for us." And so there are some situations where we divide, but for the most part, we far too often and far too quickly choose division.

And it's causing a church in America that is immature. We might have the appearance of maturity. We might have some Scriptures memorized. We might have some systematic theologies built, but you get us in a room together? We don't act like family because we've divided and we've sectioned off the gospel. We've made the gospel so much smaller than it actually is. And so Paul says that you're actually extremely immature because you're choosing to divide over silly things. It goes on, Paul, in a different letter to the church at Ephesus in Ephesians chapter four, if you want to turn there. So I don't even think I said my main point. I've got so much stuff going on in my head right now. My first point is this, that I put it on the screen. Division is a marker of spiritual immaturity.

That when we divide, it demonstrates that we are not as mature as we think we are. The second point I have here is that unity is a marker of spiritual maturity. Ephesians chapter four, starting in verse one. I love that Paul communicates a lot without saying much at all. So first he says, "Brothers and sisters," which is like, "I love you." And then he says, "You're a baby." I love that. And in this passage, he says, "As a prisoner of the Lord." So he's about to give him some more pastoral teaching, but beforehand he's like, "Hey, just remember that I'm in jail for this stuff." Right? I love it. In Corinth, he's like, "Brothers and sisters, you're babies." In Ephesus, he's like, "I'm in jail for you." All right, now let's talk about Jesus. As a prisoner for the Lord, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received.

He said, "You have been called as a follower of Jesus, as an ambassador of the kingdom of God. You have a calling on your life. Now live according to that calling. Be a doer of the word, not just a hearer only." And what does that look like? Be completely humble and gentle, patient, bearing with one another in love, staying together in love. In the midst of conflict, in the midst of disagreement, you bear together in love. And then he gives a different version of his Romans 12, as far as it is, as long as it's possible for you to live at peace with everyone. He says, "Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace." Why? The verse we read in 1 Corinthians, "There is one body and one Spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called.

One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father over all, who is over all, through all, and in all." Unity isn't a byproduct of spiritual maturity. It's part of the package. So when we work towards maturity, it creates unity. In this type of unity that Paul is inviting us to, it requires humility, gentleness, patience, and sacrificial love, and it requires those things from both parties in the conflict. When conflict and division arise, we both have to set our eyes on Jesus, who is humble, and patient, and kind, and who is working towards reconciliation with all of creation. He is our example, and if He can reconcile all of creation to Himself through His sacrificial love, then we can reconcile brothers and sisters to ourselves through following His example. So looking to Jesus as our example, who is all humble, and gentle, and patient, we approach our brothers and sisters in conflict with that posture.

We stay committed to grow with one another, pursuing unity. And here's the thing, and this is the frustrating part for me. Yeah. Sometimes it takes the more mature brother and sister to lead in this. Sometimes we get into division and disagreement, and we're waiting for the other person to come to us to reconcile, and we're both like, "We'll just avoid each other until somebody decides to be the bigger person." And it's actually a sign of maturity if you're willing to go first. And so I just need some of you in the room who have been walking with Jesus for a long time. I need you all to be spiritually mature when issues of division and conflict arise in our body, and I need you to take the first step. If we want to be a people that build our community around reconciliation with one another rather than division, if we want to create a laboratory of sacrificial love rather than an echo chamber of our own preference, we need those of you in the room who are spiritually mature when you see conflict and division to step in and to push each other closer to relationship with one another.

We need to sit across the table from one another. We need to have conversations. We need to learn to listen to one another's perspective. It often requires the most mature person to take the first step. And the thing that I love about this whole process is that disagreements and conflict are, I used to, I'm a, I'm what I call a peacemaker. Now, I used to be a peacekeeper. Those are two different things. That's a totally different sermon. So I don't like conflict, or at least I used to hate conflict and division. But what I've learned as I've grown up in the Lord is that conflict and division is actually an opportunity for discipleship. When conflict and division arise, it allows us this laboratory where we get to sit down together and talk about our disagreements and look to Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith.

And we get to learn from him how to be united with one another based on sacrificial love that he gives us. And so when conflict arises, don't withdraw, don't get anxious, don't be afraid. Step into it with love as an opportunity for you and the other person or the other group of people to grow closer to Jesus. On the opposite end of our last slide, the cycle of maturity, is when disagreement and conflict arises, we push towards reconciliation. We move towards one another in love. We look each other in the eye. We forgive one another. We repent for our own mistakes so often. Even if you only did like 5% of the mistake making, own it. Repent of the 5% that you did, even if that other person on the other side isn't willing yet to own up to their 95%.

You step in. You follow the example of Jesus, and you, you, okay, Jesus didn't need to repent because he didn't sin, so that didn't work there the way I wanted it to. But you lay down your life for your neighbor, for your brother, for your sister. You take ownership of your mistakes. And this leads to unity, and unity leads to maturity, because when a diverse group of people who are all focused on Jesus are in the same room together, that's when we move more towards the image of Jesus. And I think this is the reason why so many churches in America have so many people that don't really look like Jesus, who have been following Jesus for a really long time, is because we've been filling the room with people who aren't willing to disagree or to work through conflict.

And there's churches on every corner. So when conflict arises, you're like, "I'm out. Find another church. That church down the road is looking great. They just had a new logo made. I want to see what's going on in there. They got a fog machine over there. Let's do that." And I saw this this past couple weeks. I literally saw people on social media posting videos of them leaving their church and saying, "I've been going to this church for 10 years and I can't wait to leave and I'm never coming back." That attitude leads to immaturity. I'm not even saying that one side's right or wrong, but that attitude of there's conflict and I'm leaving, that leads to immaturity. What Jesus wants for his church is that we pursue reconciliation in the midst of conflict, no matter how hard it is.

If Jesus can die to unify us, we can lay down our preferences to pursue the unity that he died for us to make. It makes us healthier, it makes us stronger. In John Mark's teaching on this, he mentions a study where healthy marriages, he says healthy marriages don't fight less, they just reconcile more. And it's not that we look at these marriages that are healthy, and it's not that they don't have disagreements or fights, it's that they've learned to reconcile with one another in the midst of disagreement, and they grow together through it. When I was eight years old, playing peewee football like I was an animal, I got some tapes I'll have to show you guys sometime, you come see me. Actually, Ken Sander, can you turn my VHS football tapes into a DVD for me? I'll just put it on the screen next week.

I broke my collarbone, and turns out when you break your collarbone, like your body does some stuff to heal it, and for a while it's actually stronger than it was when it broke. So I found out I had like a superhuman collarbone when I was nine years old playing football. That was my best year. It had to be because, but my point here is this, like when... And we go back to the body illustration, right? When your body breaks and you reconcile, it becomes stronger, it becomes more mature. And this is what we've been invited to. I love this quote from Dr. Joseph Hellerman. I'm flying because we're way behind, but it's okay. Marissa, you can come on up, whenever. Dr. Joseph Hellerman says, "The spiritual formation occurs primarily in the context of community. Persons who remain committed with their brothers and sisters in the local church almost invariably grow in self-understanding.

They mature in their ability to relate in healthy ways to God and to their fellow human beings. This is especially the case of those courageous Christians who stick it out through the often messy process of interpersonal discord and conflict resolution. Long-term interpersonal relationships are the crucible of genuine progress in the Christian life. People who stay, grow. People who leave, do not grow. And this is the thrust of this whole message and this whole invitation from Jesus for this practice is that we've got to stay together around the table because it's in the staying. It's in the reconciling. It's in the working through the conflict that we learn about our own brokenness, that we become aware of the brokenness in others, and that we continue to look to Jesus who unites us. If we want to grow in spiritual maturity, we've got to stay committed to unity and repair in the midst of conflict and disagreement.

Which leads me to my main point, my overarching point for you note takers. I think this is the longest main point I've ever had in my entire life, which probably isn't a good preaching technique. If it's longer than my main point when I was a 20-year-old preacher, probably not a good preaching technique, but here we are anyway. The unified community is the slow, sacred fruit of the gospel, where repentance softens hearts, forgiveness heals wounds, and love matures us into the image of Jesus. Coming together in unity, it's a fruit that happens as we set our eyes on Jesus, as we lay down our preferences, as we look our brothers and sisters in the eye after they hurt us, after they disagree with us, after they post an opinion on social media that we can't even imagine how they would have ever gotten to believe that. And we don't walk away from them. We sit down at the table and we have a conversation and we listen. And we don't listen to respond, we listen to understand.

And we allow the Holy Spirit to use these conversations to form us into the image of Jesus. This type of community has not happened by accident or overnight. We will naturally drift towards division and echo chambers and isolation. It's easier. And we as human beings love to do what's easy. Division happens by impulse, but unity happens through intentionality. And that's the thing that we have to remember when conflict arises. There's such a, there's a point when conflict arises where that fight or flight thing in our brain starts firing.

And we just want to run. And oftentimes we do so much damage in the moment of conflict, the things that come out of our mouth, the things that we say that we don't mean. And then we're, we're too prideful to come back and to seek reconciliation and to repent. So we've got to, we've got to create a, we want to create a culture here at Canvas where reconciliation is accepted. It's expected. It's a sacred partnership because it's only by God's grace that we can remain united. It's not something that you and I can accomplish on our own. It's not something that we could do conflict resolution classes and get to. The reason we are united is because of the blood of Jesus. Notice the passage of Scripture doesn't say, "Be eager to cultivate the unity of spirit and the bond of peace."

It says, "Be eager to keep the unity." Unity is a gift that's given to us by the blood of Jesus. It's not our responsibility to make it. It's our responsibility to keep it by following the example of Jesus.

Unity is a gift that Jesus gives us, not because we deserve it or we're able to keep it without Him, but because this is His vision for the world. You guys want to be five minutes late to lunch? Thank you. Sorry. I said I'm a planner. I like to plan. I like to get you guys. I like, anyway. All right.

John Mark and his teaching on this was talking about visiting an abbot where the spiritual people commit to live there for their entire lives. And it's just a bunch of religious dudes that built this incredible retreat center for prayer. And John Mark said, "How do a bunch of religious people make such a nice retreat center?" And Abbot Jeremy said this. He says, "When you know you're going to die in a place, you tend to take really good care of it." And when I heard that quote, I couldn't help but think this, that knowing our destination, our eternal destination impacts the way that we live today. And when I read the Scriptures, I read about every tribe, nation, language and tongue surrounded, surrounding the throne of God, worshiping King Jesus, united as one group of people.

And if that is where we are going, then we better start cultivating that now. If our destination is unified, surrendered to King Jesus, with people that have different opinions than we do, with people who committed sins that we can't even imagine that Jesus would have redeemed them in the midst of their sinfulness and their failures. If we can't unify around people that are broken and messed up and have wrong opinions now, then what is eternity going to look like for us? This is where we're headed. And knowing our destination changes our earthly efforts. We are headed to a kingdom where God sits on His throne, and all of our preferences and all of our failures fade away so that we can circle His throne as His people from every tribe, language, and tongue, and we can celebrate Him who is worthy, for He is slain, and He is the one who unites us.

So, a couple of practical things. Sit down when you're tempted to withdraw. When you feel like you can't even imagine how that brother or sister could believe that, think that, say that, do that. Sit down at the table. Be curious. Listen to understand and not to respond. Look to Jesus. And stay at the table long enough for conflicts to arise and disagreements to form. And do the slow, hard work of reconciliation. Repent. Forgive. Follow the example of Jesus. Grow in humility, patience, gentleness, and sacrificial love. And make every effort to maintain the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. Imagine, with me, if this is what our community was known for. If we refused to settle for Ecker Chambers of preference and instead cultivated a laboratory of sacrificial love that resulted in spiritual maturity. Where we become aware of our blind spots and learn from our brothers and sisters who have different perspectives than we do.

Where we lay down our preferences and our own packaging of the gospel for the gospel of the kingdom of God. Where we take ownership of how we've contributed to conflict and division and we repent. And where we work hard to extend forgiveness to those who have offended us, not because they deserve it, but because Jesus forgave us when we didn't. This is the gospel. And our theology is only as good as the love that it produces and the community that it creates. May we be a people committed to staying together at the table. Though the world is obsessed with division and allergic to reconciliation. May we be a city on a hill. Let's not put the basket over our lantern. Let's shine a light in the darkness. Let's be a people who remain unified around the gospel.

I'm going to pray. Marissa is going to do whatever the Spirit told Marissa to do. The Spirit told Marissa to do nothing. I'm going to pray. And then as I'm praying, if you are like, "I need to be baptized today," then we're going to do it, right? You guys want to be 10 minutes late to lunch? All right. So I'll pray. We're still doing whatever the Spirit told her to do. If the Spirit's telling you that it's time to be baptized, we're going to do that. And if that doesn't happen, then we're going to go to lunch eight minutes late and praise the Lord. Father in heaven, we are one body, united by one Spirit. We have one Lord, one faith, and one baptism that unites us all. And it unites all of us, red, yellow, black, and white.

We are precious in your sight. We have strong opinions about emotionally charged issues. We allow the gospel of the kingdom of God and the Holy Spirit to inform those opinions, and yet sometimes we still make errors and mistakes. We put too many eggs in the wrong basket, and we unite as a family of God so that we can point out each other's blind spots and grow. God, may this church be a church full of people that become more and more mature into the image of Jesus, because when conflict and division arise, we step into it. We work towards reconciliation, because we know where we're headed.

And whether we like it or not, we are all going to be around your throne one day, all of us who have surrendered to Jesus. So if we can't stay in the room, if we can't be in a room together now, eternity is not going to be as fun as we think it is. God, may we move towards our eternal destiny here and now, for your glory, for our good, and for the good of our neighbor. In Jesus name I pray. Amen.
