The Almighty Dollar: CONSIDER YOUR WAYS
2026-04-27
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aN5_GMfq0es

A couple of years ago, I met a guy by the name of Drew at a seminar that our church staff went to. It was kind of a small regional seminar, and it was happening at the church that Drew is a, I believe he's an elder or a leader at, and I got to be honest, he set up a table because it was his local church, and it was a small regional gathering, and there was like 20 of us getting cookies where he had his table set up, and I've been that guy, so I'm like, you got to go talk to the guy, you know, he came all this way, well, you know, he set up a table, so I'm like, I'll go listen to his spiel, hear what he has to say, pat him on the back, say thanks for your ministry, brother, and we'll move on, and you know, he'll

feel good, and I'll feel good, and it'll be great. And you guys have all been to tables like that in some way, shape, or form, and Drew just was so kind, and listened, and shared, and he did not try to sell me anything. He actually tried to undersell me everything. He was just like, I'm just here to, I love the church, and I want to help the church, and if we never talk again, that's great. I hope this conversation helps you help your church, and I was like, he was almost so underselling himself that I like, out of spite, wanted him to sell me more.

And so, yeah, that's how I met Drew, and you know, I, as a pastor, someone who grew up in the church, I feel like I had my finances somewhat in order, and I was like, I'm sure he could help me, but at this point in my life, is it something that I should prioritize? And thank the Lord that we have spouses sometimes. Because my wife said, no, we need to talk to this guy about our money. So we did, and it was incredibly impactful for me, and for Marissa, and for the way that we view everything that God gives us. Drew was so kind, so pastoral, so wise, and it actually came at the perfect time for us. And even then, I was like, oh, I'm so glad that he helped me, again, for free, didn't

ask for anything, didn't try and sell me. Now that I've helped you, you should let me help your church. Didn't do any of that, and I was still a little bit skeptical about bringing this opportunity to you all. And the Lord has just been trying to work on me, and he's been doing so. And so it just, the timing of this is perfect, and I'm really excited for this seminar. I hope that it blesses many of you, it blesses our congregation, and it trickles down to the way that we can have a kingdom impact in our city, which is something that we talk about a lot. So I'm going to invite Pastor Drew up. I realized that about the middle of the second Song, that I don't think I've ever been put in a position to say his last name out loud.

Give it your best telemarketing. Pastor Drew Gacy. Gacy, Gacy, Gacy. It's a tough one, but it's great on screening telemarketers. So very good at screening telemarketers. Well, it is good to be with you. And how many years ago was that? About three years ago? Am I right in saying that? I'm telling you. And thank you. That's how I operate. I'm a pastor. That's my heart. It's about his kingdom. Amen, church? Okay. Got to lay it very clear here. I play the drums. I used to race cars. And I ride a motorcycle. You know what that means? I can't hear you. So with that in mind, am I on? Oh, is that you? That's mine. I thought you were going to break something. I'm not going to break anything. That's my little pedal there. So I can't hear you.

So I'm going to be looking for some response. But I want to get ourselves going. We got a full couple days here. And I want to get you. I want to lay the groundwork. If you walk out of this series that Pastor Ryan has shared these last couple weeks, and you walk out of this and these next couple days falling more in love with money, instead of falling more in love with the Lord, we have failed you miserably. Our goal is to help you fall more in love with Jesus and allow these tools that God has put into our care, money, finances, resources, things, to be used for his greater purposes and his kingdom. Amen, church? Now you're getting better, but not there. The caffeinated part did not kick in yet. But to get ourselves going and moving in the right direction,

how many here are familiar with the author Jules Verne? Put your hand up high, real high. Okay, name me a book that Jules Verne wrote. Somebody. 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. Usually the first response I get. Name me another book. Around the World in 80 Days. What else? Give me another book. Journey to the Center of the Earth. Give me another book. Have you ever heard of that book, Mysterious Island? Yeah, people always say yes after I say that. So let me just give you a little bit of a synopsis of the opening of that book. I'm going to read it for you. So listen closely because it's going to lay the groundwork for where we want to go. In the book, Mysterious Island by Jules Verne, it opens up with a daring hot air balloon escape of five prisoners.

Rather than making it to safety, the wind sent the prisoners out over the ocean. And that's where things went from bad to worse because they realized that their balloon was losing altitude. They were drifting dangerously close to the waters below. They decided to dump a few of their possessions like spare clothes and weapons in an attempt to regain altitude. And their plan worked at first, but eventually they started to drift lower to the water. Then they decided to throw their food supplies overboard. They figured it's better to be in the air rather than be drowned in the ocean with a full belly. Again, the balloon lifted, but only for a short time. They could see off in the distance some dry land, but it was unlikely that they were going to make it to the shores.

This is when the men decided to do the unthinkable thing and get rid of one of the most essential things that they thought that they had. The basket in which they were standing in. The men tied themselves to the balloon and they cut the basket loose. As it fell to the ocean below, they were given just enough height to make it to the shores of Mysterious Island. This story that I just shared with you illustrates the importance of what we think may be essential. What we think is a priority in life. It literally may be something that is holding us back to getting to where God wants us to be. Did you ever think about it that way? And we want to then get into that book that we all had devotions in this morning, that Old Testament book of Haggai, right?

Is that where you had your devotions this morning, the book of Haggai? Well, if you don't know where it is, if you got a digital version, open it up, please, because I want you to have that text in front of you. If you have a paper version that's that amazing thing called the table of contents, it always gets you to the right page. So I want you to get that Bible open to the book of Haggai, chapter one. We're going to be right there in chapter one. And I want you to follow along with us, because the first half of the message, we're going to be focusing in on that chapter and looking at that. If you remember nothing more from this time together, I want you to remember this. Because God cares about our priorities, our personal financial stewardship should reflect God's priorities.

That's how it should be. And I want us to think about that in light of what we're going to be looking at in the book of Haggai, chapter one. So as we start off, follow along as I read to you, Haggai chapter one. And I want to look at verses one through six first here. And I want us to see misplaced priorities exposed. Follow along. In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel, son of Sheetal, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, son of Jehoshadak, the high priest. Thus saith the Lord of hosts. These people say, the time has not yet come to rebuild the house of the Lord. Then the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet.

Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses while this house lies in ruins? Now, therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. You have sown much and harvested little. You eat, but you never have enough. You drink, but you never have your fill. You clothe yourselves, but no one is warm. And he who earns wages does so to put them into a bag with holes. We see here that Israel was given a task. They were given a task to rebuild the temple. In 539 BC, Cyrus the Great captured Babylon and allowed Israel to return to Jerusalem that following year. As we read in Ezra chapter 1, Cyrus wrote an edict instructing Israel, rebuild the temple of God. But what we see here is the nation started to lose focus.

The resettled nation started out well with the completion of the temple floor, but it stopped there. You know, the people of Israel are just like you and I today. We start working on this project right over here, and we get in the middle of it. And we happen to look over our shoulder, and we see this project over here. And we get over here, and we start working on this project. And as we're over here, we say, oh, wait about, I got to start working on this one. And we get working on this project here. I see some of you smiling out there. You know what I'm talking about. How many projects do you have started, and how many do you have completed? So, well, the nation of Israel was just like us. We do the same thing today.

We start a project, and we look for another one, or we find another one. It grabs our attention. And as you've guessed, the project that grabbed the attention, the excitement of the nation of Israel was the rebuilding of their own houses, as we see in verse 4 there in the text, thus leaving the temple floor to collect dust. And their new rebuilding project, it wasn't just a simple, basic home. According to the biblical text here we have, they were building paneled or sealed houses. What does that mean? I like to say it this way. Lowe's and Home Depot back then were doing phenomenally well. They were doing great. So what was their excuse? If we look at the text, we can see Israel's underlying thinking was this. Well, God, the timing just isn't right. Imagine saying that to God.

How can we say this? Look at verse 6. We see Israel had crop failure, hunger, drought, sickness, disease, financial distress. Israel had excuses, and they were all very, very good excuses. Yet with the excuses just flowing from the nation of Israel, it's important to note that they had the time, they had the money, they had the resources to take care of their own homes. So what's the reality of their situation? Their priorities were not God's priorities. Clearly, they put themselves before God. Money is that great barometer to show what we love and value most. Money is that great barometer. How our money is spent reveals the ultimate priorities of our heart. So a good key takeaway here in these six verses, our activities and our use of money expose our true priorities. Now, let's continue on, and let's look at verses 7 through 11.

And as we look at that, let's look at the cost of misplaced priorities. Follow along, starting at verse 7. Look at your text there. Thus sayeth the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Go up to the hills and bring wood and build the house, that I may take pleasure in it, and that I may be glorified, says the Lord. You look for much, and behold, it came to little. And when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why, declares the Lord of hosts, because of my house that lies in ruins, while each of you busies himself with his own house. Therefore, the heavens above you have withheld the dew, and the earth has withheld its produce. And I have called for a drought on the land and on the hills, on the grain, the new wine, the oil, on what the ground brings forth, on man and beast, and on all of their labors.

So what was the real cause of Israel's struggles? God wanted to get their attention. So what was God's plan to get Israel's attention? According to what we see here in the text, verse 11 says, God brought about scarcity, loss, drought, weak harvest, and frustration. Israel had very real problems, which were a direct result of their misplaced priorities. They were complaining to God about all that was happening around them. They were saying that they didn't have the time, the money, the resources to rebuild the temple. And God steps through time and space, through the prophet Haggai, and speaks to the people. And I'm paraphrasing here. God says through Haggai, I know your problems. I see your problems. I understand your problems. And I'm causing those problems. It's me, God, doing all this. Does that experience in Haggai's day seem like an experience that happens to us on a regular basis where we save and save and save and save for that rainy day like today?

But yet it rains every single Tuesday, and it wipes it all away. While it's important to note that while God caused those problems to get their attention back on him, not every financial struggle that we go through is a result of misplaced priorities. Make sure you know that. So in our text, we read twice this phrase, consider your ways, in verse 5 and in verse 7, with only one verse in between. You think God's trying to get our attention on something? Clearly he is. What's he trying to say? Take time. Pause. Reflect. Respond to what I am doing. If you and I feel God's resistance in our life, maybe it's God's way of saying, I love you enough not to keep you where you're at. I've got something better for you. That's how our God operates.

So he does not want us to continue to live under the consequences of misplaced priorities. So a good key takeaway here in these verses is this. Sometimes difficult circumstances are God's way of getting our attention. If that is you, maybe sometime in the past that God caused some difficult challenges in your life to get your focus back to him, put your hand up super high, real high. Look around. You're in good company, church. You're in good company. So Israel had misplaced priorities that were exposed that we see in verses 1 through 6. Then we just saw the cost of misplaced priorities. Now let's take a look at that, that there is hope for those with misplaced priorities. Let's look at verses 12 through 14. Follow along in the text here. Then Zerubbabel, son of Sheetal, Joshua, the son of Jehoshadak, the high priest, and all the remnant of the people,

they obeyed the voice of the Lord, their God, and the words of Haggai, the prophet, as Lord their God had sent him. And the people feared the Lord. Then Haggai, the messenger of the Lord, spoke to the people with the Lord's message, I am with you, declares the Lord. And the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel, son of Sheetal, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the son of Jehoshadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people. And they came and they worked on the house of the Lord of hosts, their God. Is there hope for Israel? Is there hope for you and me? Absolutely yes. 1 John 1, 9. You know the verse very well. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from how much unrighteousness?

You know it. Say it again. All unrighteousness. And when Israel repents, God responds with, I am with you. This promise to be with you was all that the people needed to hear. And they responded with joyful, energetic obedience. And the result is the temple is rebuilt. You and I are not to wait until the circumstances of life are convenient to follow God's will. Ouch. Did I say that? I did. Because God will enable us to do that which he calls us to do. Remember, he promises to be with you as seen in verse 13, seen in Psalm 23, and many other verses of Scripture. So our good key takeaway here for these verses is this, that God will enable you to do that which he calls you to do, including this amazing thing called stewardship.

Because remember, we call it stewardship because we own nothing. God owns it all. We just get to be his caretaker for this season of life. So I want us to take a little bit of a shift here. Because we understand having knowledge without application leads to frustration. So we're now going to kick into some application key pieces here. So let's take a look at two key things. We're going to look at five timeless truths. I'm going to cover them very quickly. You probably have a workbook. What page are we on in the workbook? Oh, you didn't pull that out, did you? You need to page 10. So I want you to look. I'm going to cover these very quickly, these five timeless truths. And then I'm going to spend more time on the application of those five timeless truths.

So the five timeless truths, we call these the biblical financial priorities. What does that mean? First of all, it's biblical. What a novel idea. We're going to talk about the Bible in church. Amen. It's biblical. It's the right place to be. We're going to see that these principles come right out of the word of God. They're financial. That means it deals with all aspects of a person's money and finances, their personal finances. And then it's the priorities. Each of these principles we're going to be looking at reflect the character and heart of God. And we should seek to implement all five of these in our life. Some of them, we're going to kick in a little faster than others. But over time, all five should be a priority in our life. These biblical financial priorities and their application points, these things are the timeless truths.

And what's going to flow out of them, this is going to help you provide a structure for your finances. They're going to help you in your decision-making process on what you should be spending money on and why you should be spending money on that. And it's going to give you 100% or give you a principle guideline on handling 100% of your money and your assets. You're choosing to follow these principles that we're going to put before you, not just this moment, but this afternoon and over these next couple days. Not anything that we have done. We're just taking biblical principles and putting them before you. It can revolutionize your personal financial household. It can revolutionize your generosity. As Pastor Ryan has shared with him and Marissa, as they have just changed their generosity. Thank you for sharing that on the first Sunday of this series.

And that is bold, talking about money right after Easter, brother. Never, I've never, I do not teach on that Sunday after Easter as I travel around the country. That is not what I do the Sunday after, you're bold, brother. You are bold. But this is not any normal church as what he's been sharing. So this can revolutionize things for you. As Pastor has shared in his own personal testimony. And it's going to align your priorities with the word of God and with his heart. So let's take a quick look. We're going to quickly look at these five timeless truths in the bottom of page 10. First truth, God is our highest priority. Amen? God is our highest priority. Why? Because he loves us and he died for us. You see that right there in Scripture.

In 1 John 4, 19 and Romans 5, 8. Also, truth number two, family is our second priority. God created the family in Genesis chapter 2. We see that. And we also see that God has adopted us into his family. Because it says here, see what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called the children of God. Truth number three is our testimony, our lifestyle should bring glory to God. Ephesians 4 talks about that we need to walk in a worthy manner. And also, we see in 1 Corinthians 10, 31, it says, so whatever you eat or drink or whatever you do, do how much for the glory of God? You know it, church. You know what, I'm a former pastor. I was a youth pastor, executive pastor, senior pastor.

And sometimes pastors like to do these, get geeked out on word studies. We like to see what these words mean in the original language. And I did a word study on that word all years ago. You know what that word means in the original language? It means all. Everything. Do all to the glory of God. That's what it means. Do all to the glory of God. Truth number four, the needs of others should not be ignored. It says in Proverbs 21, listen for and respond to the cries of the poor. Demonstrate love in word and in deed in 1 John 3, it talks about. Truth number five, all blessings flow from God. We're not talking about the health, wealth, prosperity gospel. We are not talking about it. I think you have laid the groundwork very well, pastor, over these last couple weeks.

We're not talking about that. But what we are talking about is God blesses those who seek to obey him and his word. There's a lot in Scripture, over 2,200 verses dealing with money, finances, taxes, investing, and so much more. Over 2,200 verses dealing with that. So God wants to bring a blessing, not just spiritual blessings as seen in Ephesians 1, but material blessings as seen in Proverbs 21. So now we got these five timeless truths that you see on the screen that are there in your workbook. How do we apply these things? That's what we're going to do next. We're going to take these. We're going to find some good key application points to be able to move us forward with this. So five biblical financial priorities. I need a little help from you guys.

I need you to get your hand in the air. Get your hand up high. Okay. Too much decaf out there. Okay. Hands up in the air. And I want you to make a fist and I want you to take your thumb and stick it straight in the air. And I want you to say the word give. Give. Okay. A little louder. One more time. What? Give. Excellent. Give. Giving to the Lord is our first priority and our what? Privilege. Privilege. Proverbs 3.9 says, honor the Lord with your wealth and with the first fruits of your produce. It's our privilege to give unto the Lord of our substance, of our earnings, right off the top. Some good principles of giving. God is our model for giving. We understand this because John 3.16. For God so loved the world that he did what?

Gave. He gave. And he gave what you and I and people outside of these walls need, Jesus on the cross. Amen? That's what we needed. That's what we still need every day. Amen? And our giving should be focused on the local church. This, your local church. The local church's general fund. The parallel is we see in Malachi 3.10, Old Testament, it was giving to the temple. And that's our parallel today. They gave to their temple. We give to our local church where you are being built up, where you are being encouraged, where you are being discipled, where you are being shepherded. Thought-provoking quotes from Randy Alcorn. He's got a great little book called The Treasure Principle. He says this, tithing isn't the ceiling of giving, it's the floor. It's not the finish line of giving, it's the starting blocks.

Oh, I like what he says about that. He also continues to say, tithes can launch us into the mindset, skills, and habits of grace giving. So it gets us moving in that direction. So we work toward giving a tithe, and then from there, watch God continue to bless as we continue to bless our church with our generosity. And also, you and I ought to give with an investment mentality. What does that mean? In Matthew 6.20, it says, but lay up for yourselves treasures where? In heaven. Did you ever think about that, that your giving is like that? Where we give to a church that, like this church, that has a passion to see people come to know Christ and grow in Christ. We are laying up treasures in heaven through our generosity, through our tithes and offering to our church.

And those blessings will be with us for all eternity. So a good key takeaway here in this give principle is this. Many people can't afford to give precisely because they're not giving. That's what Randy Alcorn has to say. And he continues to say that God enables us to do that which he calls us to do. So if you're not giving, you're thinking, I can't do this. But once you start giving, and I'm not going to ask for hands, but those of us who have done that, who have shifted from not giving to giving, we cannot not give anymore. Because God has been so good and gracious to us. You know, I like to say it this way. In our world, we think that subtraction means it's gone. But in God's math equation, subtraction equals addition.

Did you hear what I said? We think it's gone. We're kissing the money goodbye. God says, no, it's coming back. And greater and better than before. Not a health, wealth, prosperity gospel. It's how God does math for kingdom purposes. Amen. That's what it's about. So our first biblical priority. Get your hand in the air. Make that fist. Okay. Oh, boy. A little slow here. Get that fist. Get that first thumb up. What is it? Give. Do it again. First one. Give. Second one is save. Okay. First one. What is it? Give. Two. Save. Got it. Give. Save. So save. Because family is our second priority. We should build savings to protect our family. Here's three reasons why to save. First of all, prepare for the unexpected. Since we live in a world that's been impacted by the fall of mankind in the sin, we should anticipate things are going to break down and wear out.

Because you do know that your car battery is going to die, your tire is going to blow out on your car only when you have the extra money, right? Oh, that doesn't happen to you either? So, or the washing machine. There you go. So, the second reason to save is it's going to build a stronger marriage for those of us who are married. Many, many marriage problems result from financial mismanagement and consumer debt. I can say that as a pastor, an executive pastor, I can say that because my minor in my master's is counseling. I spent a lot of time counseling different congregants through the years. And we would, not all the time, but a lot of time, it came back to money challenges. Usually not an income challenge, but a money mismanagement challenge. And you want to build a stronger marriage, let's work on this part.

Let's get this taken care of. TD Ameritrade, years ago, did a study. 41% of Gen Xers, 29% of Boomers ended their marriage due to disagreements about money. Staggering numbers. Third, savings will help us stay out of debt. Sometimes I like to operate with a simple way of thinking. If you're not earning interest, you're paying interest. Pretty simple, isn't it? Can't get more complicated than that. So the goal is to be able to have your money earning some interest for you instead of always paying interest to somebody else. If I had a choice between earning and paying, game on. I'm going to try to earn as much as I can. So we just looked at three key reasons to save. Now let's look at some principles of saving. First of all, we're called to be proactive.

Consider Proverbs 22, 3 and 27, 12. Let me read these two verses for you. The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it. That was Proverbs 22, 3. Proverbs 27, 12 says, the prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it. Pastor Drew, you got a stuttering problem? No, God's all into repetition. He's into repetition to the point where he wants to get a point across with just a little bit of distance between those verses. He wants us to financially look ahead and anticipate future problems and complications and prepare for them. What are some of those things? Property tax bills, college, weddings, replacing cars, retirement, you know, vacations, Christmas. Let's prepare ahead of time for those things. Second, we're also called to be providers.

First Timothy 5a, Paul writes about providing for our families. Some thinks that Paul means he's just providing a paycheck. Here's the pay to be able to make it through. But it's interesting in the original language, that word Paul uses is for continually is it's a continual aspect. It's to take care of today, tomorrow, the rest of this week, to have some for the following week, for the week after, for that month, for the rest of the next month, and even some for the future. That's what the original is talking about. So we need to come up with a stewardship plan that's going to make it last. And third, reserves and savings are a sign of wisdom, not wealth. In Proverbs 21.20, we read, reserves are found in the house of the wise, not the rich.

Did you hear me? We think that people that are rich have reserves. No, they are the ones that are wise, that they are the ones that have that reserves. So I like to put it in a simple form, again, as Proverbs talks about, the wise person, they have reserves. But using the terms of Proverbs, the fool chooses to live paycheck to paycheck. So here's a good key takeaway here. Savings must be a conviction, not a convenience. It cannot be, I'll save if there's extra. So our first biblical priority, get your hands in the air, join me. Nice and high. What's the first one? Two. Two. Save. Three is spend. Say it again. Nice and loud. First one, what? Give. Two. Save. Three. Spend. Got it. Spend is our next one. Because our choices matter, we need to be timely and honorable with our creditors.

So let's look at some principles of spending. First, we need to recognize the difference between needs and wants. Ooh, ouch. Did I say that? I did. The spend section of our budget, it's necessity spending. It's what is needed and necessary for living. Now, we all understand cable TV and streaming services, that's necessity spending, right? Thank you for laughing. We need to evaluate our spending and recategorize things into luxuries. What are some of those things? Like Starbucks, fast food, unconstrained grocery budget. That includes the TV, cable TV, and streaming services. They are luxuries. So where does overspending typically take place? So Walmart, Target, dare I say that thing where all you have to do is this? You know where I'm going. Amazon. How many of you purchased something even in the beginning of this message? Don't answer that.

Where's your overspending weakness? Where is that one that challenges you the most? When I go to Walmart, that challenge, they have it every there. That necessity thing, every time I'm at Walmart, when I go through the checkout line, those Reese's peanut butter cups are right there waiting for me every single time. It's estimated those who carry credit card debt, they have an outstanding balance. They carry it month after month, $6,500 month to month. Times two if you're married. Thank you. Not, and that's true. Those are true numbers. I shared earlier, 1 Corinthians 10, 31. You and I are called to do how much for the glory of God? How much? All. Now, don't respond to this. Does going into consumer debt bring glory to God? You know what I'm talking about. Some of the biggest idols of the American Christian includes money and possessions.

I said this earlier, I say it again. What we spend our money on reflects what we love and value most. And according to Scripture, you and I are also called to pay our debts. We see this in Romans 13, 7. Pay to all what is owed to them. Psalm 37, 21. The wicked borrows but does not pay back. Ouch. I never want to be counted in as that group of called the wicked. So a good key takeaway here in this section is living on less than you earn is a sign of wisdom. So whatever our earnings are, our goal is to live on less than that. And that's our sign of wisdom. Let's get our hands in the air again. First, what one is what? Two, save. Three, spend. Four, offerings. That's our next one, offerings.

And we need to be mindful and generous towards the needs of others. Before we spend on our own wants, we should look for the needs of others and be a blessing. Randy Alcorn in his book, The Treasure Principle says this, God prospers me not to raise my standard of living, but to raise my standard of giving. Love that phrase. Our offerings are our giving above and beyond our tithe, our giving to our local church. How do we do this? What are some principles? First of all, it involves setting aside a monthly or yearly predetermined amount to meet the needs of others. Some examples can include supporting missionaries, church building campaigns, other nonprofit organizations, and ministries that are inside or outside of the church, as well as helping a neighbor who is in need. That's a big one, especially since the pandemic, right?

That person across the fence that lost a job that may need some assistance, or maybe across the aisle of the church that may need some assistance. So what does the Bible say about it? If you take a look there in your workbook, and we will put this on the screen, we are to remember the poor, as we see here in Galatians 2.10. We should not be stingy toward those in need. And then from there, we please God when we help and encourage others. We're rewarded by God for our generosity toward the poor and the needy. And then also, well, we see these verses, and we see these phrases and these verses that coincide. And that, may I tell you, it's just a snapshot. Scripture from cover to cover talks about meeting the needs of others.

That's where God's heart is. So a good key takeaway here in this offering section is this. Who could you be a blessing to? Who could you be a blessing to? What can you build into your personal budget, either monthly or yearly, to be a blessing to somebody else? Hands in the air. Join me again. First one is what? Two. Two. Save. Three. Stand. Four. Offer. Fifth one is luxuries. Luxuries. You're going to get this down by the time we're done here. Luxuries. Is it right for you and I to enjoy the abundance of what God puts into our care? Absolutely yes. First Timothy 6.17, the latter part of that verse, says this. God richly provides us with everything to enjoy. God is not a cosmic killjoy. He's given you taste buds. He's given you eyes to appreciate beauty.

He wants us to enjoy things, but in the right order. Did you hear what I said? Did you hear what I said? So what is the luxury? To understand the difference between luxuries and the things that you need in life, you need to understand, I want to take you back to the beginning of this message. That Jules Verne story, that basket that they were in, they saw that as a need, but in all reality, that became a luxury for them. You know what I'm talking about? They just needed that balloon tied to it to be able to get to where they needed to go. Luxuries are good and right to have, and they're good and right to enjoy. A luxury is anything that is non-essential for life. Let me give you a couple examples. Some examples of luxuries can include eating out, impulse purchasing, eating out, designer clothing, eating out, fancy shoes, eating out, various TV subscription, eating out, sports and entertainment tickets, eating out, a fancy vacation, eating out, having pets, eating out, a fancy convertible.

Did I say eating out? I wanted to get it at least in once. There's nothing wrong with living in a nice house. There's nothing wrong with driving a nice car. I'm a car guy. I like nice cars. And there's nothing wrong with going out and having a nice meal out, provided you're living within the five biblical financial priority framework. Because if you're not giving to giving to your church, you may want to rethink those TV subscriptions, the 13 of them that you have. And if you're not saving to protect your family, you may want to rethink that eating out. If you're not paying your bills on time, should you really be having those season tickets? And if you're not generous to others, maybe you need to rethink that over-the-top fancy vacation. Some warnings about luxuries.

Beware of the dangers of materialism. Because what happens is we can get so caught up with the things, we fall in love with the things and fall less in love with our creator. And then we get to the point where we don't want to love the gift more than the giver of the gift. Wealth and possessions can destroy our desire for God and our ability to serve him. We must not seek our value and meaning of life in the things that are around us, the things that we've acquired. So a good key takeaway here is this, that God has richly provided us with everything to enjoy. He wants us to have fun in that order. So the question that I put before all of us here as I land this plane is, what does biblical stewardship look like for you?

What does it look like? Now, I need you to do me a favor. I need you to get those hands up in the air again. I want to see a lot of hands up. And let's get these up in the air. And the first one is what? Two, three, four, five. Let's put that next. I want you to keep your hand in the air. I don't want you to put it down. And I want you to keep your eyes on me. Hand in the air. Let's get that. So we have it up on the screen here so you can see it all. First one is what? Louder. Three, four. Five, one more time. Nice and loud. First one. And keep your eyes on me. Don't put your hand down. First one. What? Two, three, four, five.

And this is how many of us choose to live. Did you see what I did? Put that next slide up there. We are this one here. We have luxuries first. You know, that old commercial, those of us who are old enough, you deserve a what today? You deserve a break today. It's about me, myself, and I. So we're going to take the luxuries here. So when the money comes in, we're going to enjoy. And then from there, our brothers and sisters down in Texas, I was just there a month or two ago. They're getting cold down there. So Samaritan's Purse needs more monies for blankets to be able to bless them. So we're going to send 20, 25 bucks there. We're going to send an offering there so our brothers and sisters down there can be warm.

And then from there, we have our spend. We want to pay our bills. We want to make sure the car doesn't get repossessed. Make sure that we have the utilities taken care of. So we're going to pay our bills on time. Maybe we'll put a couple bucks away into the bank. Maybe. Oh, give to the Lord? That usually gets wiped out.

You and I need what we call a Romans 12, 2 moment. Let's flip to the next one there. So we need to be transformed. We need to go from upside down to right side up. You hear what I'm saying, church? Do not be conformed to this world, but be what? Transformed by the renewing of your mind. And only the spirit of God and the word of God can take us from upside down to right side up. That's where we need to live. We need to get to that point where we're living right side up. Put the next slide up there. Here's the chart. The world lives one way. Those who love the word should live another way. And that's the challenge that we all have before us. Now, you may be sitting here and you may be saying,

well, I'm definitely not living upside down, but it's definitely not right side up. I'm kind of like a little messed up and kind of jumbled up here. Yeah. Welcome to the American church. But the goal is not to just be satisfied with where we're at because we're stewards. I'm a firm believer. We will give not account to what we have done in our body one day, but we're going to have to give an account to how we stewarded his possessions for his purpose, for his glory someday.

So wouldn't it be great to go from upside down or a little discombobulated to moving toward being right side up? So that's how we have to live. So if you realize maybe you've made mistakes in your past with your stewardship, take heart. As a nation of Israel was giving additional chances, we too serve a God of grace. Amen? Boy, that wasn't God of grace. A God of grace. Amen? Much better. Much better. Because our God of grace can take away that sin, even of poor stewardship, and give us a good heart, a new heart to move in that right direction.

I started off with this because God cares about our priorities. Our personal financial stewardship should reflect God's priorities. I'm going to ask Jamie to come forward at this time. Now, you may be looking for some help to get moving in that right direction. We have more teaching sessions. I like to say our teaching sessions this afternoon and over the next couple days, that's kind of like being on the plane 30,000 feet in the air. But one of the best things you can do is get the wheels on the tarmac. And that's what we call personal stewardship reviews that Pastor and Marissa have gone through. And this is what we're offering to you free of charge. Now, here's my promise. You will not walk out of one of those personal stewardship review meetings with a timeshare.

It won't happen. It won't happen. I promise you, you won't walk out with a timeshare. We are not here to sell product or service. We're here to serve you. We're here to take you, whether you're right side up and doing well. What can we help you with tax rules, regulations, all legally, ethically, and morally to move you toward greater generosity? Maybe you're a little discombobulated. Let's get you moving in that right direction. Let's get things moving. Maybe you're, yeah, I'm upside down. I need some help to get myself right side up. That's why we're here. And those personal stewardship reviews is what's going to happen. We're going to be invasive. We're going to ask you a lot of questions about what's going on behind the curtain of finances of your home. But our goal to do that is to get you moving in that right direction.

Because what wakes me up every morning, because of the joy of what I get to do, is to help you become a better steward. So your church can be fully funded for gospel ministry. So it can reach out of these walls to reach a community that is lost and dying and going to hell. And if we can do that through simply one family, one individual at a time, can you imagine the gospel impact that this church can make in this community?

No timeshare sales this week. We're here to serve you. One of the most important things my wife and I did 16, 17 years ago when she found out she had breast cancer is get a second opinion. She's with me today because of that. That second opinion saves her life. Maybe you think you got all the right pieces together. I poked holes at you, didn't I? It was fun, but not fun. But as he shared a couple weeks ago, their generosity has shifted to a whole new level. That's what it's about, church. It's not about circling the wagons and holding it tight. It's about how can we be a greater blessing. So I want to encourage you. On the back wall, there's a QR code. Scan that. We still have some open slots. We want to serve you.

Even today, we have some slots. And you're saying, well, I'm not sure we want to do that. If you're thinking, maybe I can't do it over these next couple days, on our table in the back there, on the far right side, there is a card that is there. It's a post-stewardship review card, post-seminar stewardship review card. Fill that card out. Get it to Steve or myself. Steve, where are you at, Steve? He's in the back corner there. He just waved his hand. He'll be back at the table. Take that card. Print. Print clearly your information on there. Get it to Steve or myself. You're basically giving us permission at a later date because you don't have time now to have that stewardship review like we did with Pastor on a Zoom call. We will be more than honored to serve you, to help you become that better steward to the glory of God in your family and to the glory of God in this church in these upcoming days.

Father, would you take the message that has been shared? Would you instill it into the hearts and minds of your people here? All for the purpose of building your kingdom and allowing each one of us to one day hear those amazing words, well done, thy good and faithful servant. To you, we give the glory and we pray all this in Christ's name. Amen.

I think I need another stewardship review. I have to check your schedule, Drew. This is an ongoing process, right? And it's fueled by grace. And it's God is generous and kind to us. And many of us come from many different perspectives and different life circumstances. And so just grace on you this morning. I wore my in Winchester as it is in heaven shirt on purpose this morning. We started with the Lord's Prayer on purpose this morning because I knew where Drew was going. I knew that he was going to focus in on the rebuilding of the temple, which is what Old Testament scholars say meant to be a portrait of Eden on earth as it is in heaven. That this is where the biblical story is headed. The biblical story is headed back to Eden, back to a place where there is no more tears.

There is no more mourning. There is no more car batteries going dead and tires going flat when we don't have any money. This is what Jesus is all about, is God bringing his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. And some of us in here, we need the generosity of others just to survive. And so if that's you, I just want you to know that God sees you, that God loves you, and that we here as a church, we are here to support and encourage you. And for those of us that have more than we need, just a reminder that eternal life doesn't start after we die, it starts now. And that we can be, we can bring about the components of the kingdom of God on earth as it is in heaven through our surrender to Jesus with our time, energy, resources, talents.

So I'd love for you to stand with me. We're going to end with a liturgical kind of call and response prayer. We're again, focused on this kind of heaven and earth reality. I think, do we have them? Oh, Dave is so good at his job. All right. So I'd love for you to join us as we pray. And then I'll give a couple of quick announcements at the end. Grant us, Lord, not to be anxious about earthly things.

And even now, while we are placed among things that are passing away, to hold fast to those that shall endure through Jesus Christ, our Lord. One God, forever and ever. Amen. Father, we love you and we thank you for this opportunity to be challenged, to be just reminded of your priorities and reminded of, God, just the way in which our culture disciples us, the way in which we lose sight of those around us who are in need. God, when you ask us to pray, give us this day our daily bread. I believe that prayer request comes with a mindset of looking at those around us who don't have daily bread. That we can become the answer to our own prayer by being empowered by the Holy Spirit to do what you're calling us to do.

Just give us wisdom, clarity, grace, and patience with ourselves as we just learn to grow in this area. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. All right. A couple quick announcements real quick. We have a session following this and we need help setting up. So even if you can't stay, we'd love for you to help stack some chairs. And Jamie Jackson is going to be here to explain how all that's going to work. I know that we're only going to do every other row because we're going to put like a table and then you'll sit. And then get a row out, table, sit, get a row out, table, sit. So if you can stay, we'd love for you. We're feeding you. And yeah, that's what I have. So if you're able to help stay set up, that'd be great.

If you're able to help stay for the session, that'd be great. If not personal stewardship reviews, there's availability. Do it, do it, do it. All right. Bye. Bye. Bye.
