PTW Sabbath: WORSHP
2026-02-09
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9NvM2EcBcw

Sabbath is a practice from the way of Jesus by which we cultivate a spirit of restfulness in all of our lives. It's a rhythm that God the Creator builds into the fabric of the human body and creation itself. Every seventh day, we stop, rest, delight, and worship.

Sabbath is for all of us in every stage of life and in every season. Through Sabbath, we say yes to the easy yoke of Jesus and find rest for our souls. Good morning, church. So good to see all of you all. Worship with all of you all this morning. What a time. I just feel increase in surrender in the room. There's a desire from us to just grow in our surrender of the Lord Jesus. And I'm so thankful that you all come into this place with that posture. I'm so thankful that you brave the feels like negative four degree temperature to get here and to try and find a parking spot. And so I'm grateful that you all have accomplished those things this morning. If we haven't had the privilege of meeting yet, which I would love to do,

find me. I'll be at the prayer tent after. Come say hi if we haven't met yet. My name's Ryan. I have the privilege of being one of the pastors here. And today we are finishing up our Sabbath practice. It's the fourth week of our Sabbath practice. And the Sabbath practice is in a greater series about spiritual practices that we get from the life and teachings of Jesus that are aimed at really helping us be conformed into a person of Christ-like love. And so today is week four of Sabbath. And I know for some of us this might feel like a lot, four weeks on Sabbath, but I feel like in a culture that has totally abandoned this practice that is both built into the fabric of creation as we have seen and is also a majority of the Ten Commandments, I think it's worth kind of double clicking on, going to the

Wikipedia page and giving it a little bit more time to ponder. And when I say that culture has totally abandoned that practice, I do not say that with condemnation. I think ultimately if we think about the driving motivation, the current that is pushing our culture forward, it's people longing for significance and security. The thing that has led people to abandon a Sabbath, to work seven days a week, to be nonstop connected. I think it's this desire to have the thing that God is offering them in Sabbath. And so I don't say this with condemnation, but I think it's important that we as people of God think about how we can model for the culture around us, how to get the thing that it is that they ultimately desire, the thing that they're longing for and pursuing with tireless hours and exhaustion, that we can invite

them into a rhythm of grace, that they are children of God and that they are invited to acknowledge him and surrender to him. And that in that thing that feels foreign and awkward and weird, it's actually the thing that will lead them to get the results that they're looking for in the busyness of their life. So we've talked about Sabbath as stopping from work, Sabbath as resting, like really resting, not just relaxing, but kind of plugging into the presence of God. The kind of imagery that Jesus used is abiding in the vine, like we are like roots planted deep. The Psalms talk about a tree planted by water, that Sabbath is this opportunity for us to kind of push our roots down deeper into the living water that is the presence of God in our lives, that we stop, that we rest, that we delight in

God's creation. Some of you guys were really pumped when Brian's message came around because you were like, stopping and resting sounds nice, but 24 hours of that seems really hard for me to do. And Brian said, like, you have permission to do fun things. Like, enjoy the day off. Like, it's an invitation from God, not just to stop and to rest, but to delight in the good things that God has given us. And today I want to wrap up by zooming in on the end goal of the practice. What did God intend as the result for us? If we stop, if we rest, if we delight, what is God's kind of invitation for us at the end of that? Is it just a good day of the week, or is there something deeper and more meaningful?

So that's what we're hoping to do today. Before we pray and really hop in, would you mind if we're going to do some hand raising today at the beginning and at the end, which maybe it's my Baptist roots. I don't know, but we're going to raise some hands today if that's okay. Yeah. Okay. So before we get started, would you mind raising your hand if over the last three weeks you have begun to try and practice some form of one of these Sabbath invitations that we've discussed? Maybe it's not 24 hours, but maybe you've kind of done some intentional planning, worked towards, done something around the Sabbath practice that you haven't done before or haven't done in a long time, or I'm giving you an out for those of you that haven't done it yet. Or you would say that you're at least more willing

to consider some of these practices than before the series started. Perfect. That's awesome. Look around. Like that's like most of you in here, or at least like I've done something, I've thought about putting this. And again, that's the goal of this series is not that we fill our head with more information about God, but we receive his invitation to abide in him. We receive his invitation when he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. We receive his invitation to follow him, not just intellectually ascent to his ideas, but to follow his example. So let's pray and we'll hop in. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, thank you. We have gratitude this morning in our hearts as we think about the breath in our lungs, the fact that we are alive and here. And I know in a room

this size, and I know from talking to many of my friends in the room today, that there is a lot of suffering and a lot of pain and a lot of fearful situations, both in our lives and in those that we're connected to. And God, the beautiful thing about the gospel of Jesus is that we can both have gratitude for the gift of life and we can lament the pain that is the brokenness of this world. And so we sit in that tension this morning. God, we give you gratitude for the gift of life, the gift of this warm space that we get to meet in. God, we give you thanks for that. And we also, God, release to you all of the fear, anxiety, and worry, and pain that is swirling around our minds right now. God, we release it to you. We lament it and we ask for you to do a work

in it. For this time right now that we have to focus on your word, God, give us eyes to see clearly what it is that you are inviting us into. Give us willing feet to obey. Oftentimes it's one step forward and three steps back, God, but you pick us up and you dust us off and you invite us to move forward. May today we receive that invitation of grace. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, not to brag or anything, but I live in an old farmhouse with about a thousand square feet. I know, you guys are jealous. I also don't, I make the joke about bragging. I also don't say that because I'm sad about it. I love our house. We have some land. It's out in the middle of nowhere. Like I get to look up at the star. It's a gift. But also the fact that it has a thousand square

feet and it was built in the late 1800s, early 1900s. I mean, there's not a lot of closet space. You know, when you had three outfits, you really didn't need much extra storage. And so we don't have a lot of extra storage space and I am a bit on the claustrophobic side. And so what happens typically about three or four times a year is I have, I hit this breaking point where I just look around at all of the junk that just like doesn't have a spot. And so the spot that it finds is somewhere on a table or on the floor or it's just like, it just drives me. Like I just, I hit a breaking point and I'm like, I am going to declutter. I'm going to go on a decluttering rampage. I'm

going to fix this problem. Yeah. Well, here's the problem. I usually end up just shifting things around. I feel so good about it in the moment. I'm like throwing, Marissa probably knows she just stays out of my way and things just end up somewhere else that I will trip over in three months and that will trigger my next decluttering rampage, right? But in the moment, it feels so good. It just does not produce the lasting results that ultimately I am hoping for. And I use this illustration, but there's many other areas of our life where we do this, right? We do the right thing in the wrong way. It might provide some initial benefits, but it actually doesn't produce the results that we intend. And I think the same is true about all of the spiritual practices, that there is a way in which

we can say yes to the invitation of a spiritual practice from Jesus so we can do it, but we can do it not in the right way. And it can produce some good initial results, but at the end of the day, oftentimes it doesn't lead to the thing that God intended it to lead to. I've heard it said that all spiritual practices are a means to an end. It's not about the practice. It's about encountering God through the practice. It's an invitation to deeper community, to deeper fellowship with God and with one another. And Sabbath is no different. There is a way in which you can go about the Sabbath practice that will produce some relaxation and some peace and some freedom from maybe some exterior obligations, but ultimately doesn't lead to the result that God has in mind when he extends the

invitation. There's a way that we can say yes to Sabbath. We can stop, we can rest, we can delight in the good things of God, and it actually not lead to the result that God is inviting us into, which I would argue, and I'm going to argue for the rest of our time together, that the result that God is inviting us into in the Sabbath practice is worship. I don't know what some of you might be thinking. Whoa, whoa, whoa, Ryan. You had me with stopping, resting, and delighting. All of that sounds really nice and beautiful, but worship? The goal of Sabbath is to stand in a corner somewhere and sing repetitive choruses for 24 hours, right? That's not really what I had in mind with my Sabbath time. Now, don't worry. I'm not saying that. I think we have lost a holistic definition of what worship is,

and I think if worship is the invitation of Sabbath, then we've got to kind of do some work to clarify and redefine what worship actually is so that we can understand whether or not we are doing Sabbath in a way that leads to the result God has for us. Does that make sense? Before we get to worship, I have to use, I have to actually clarify another churchy word first, and we find this in Genesis 2, again, when God is introducing us to the Sabbath. Genesis 2, verses 2 and 3 say this, on the seventh day, God had finished his work of creation, so he rested from all his work. God blessed the seventh day, or he made the seventh day joyful, happy. It is a good and happy day, and he declared it holy. Everybody say holy. Holy. You guys, that was very good. Thank you. I was

worried that like none of you would participate and I would look silly, but you guys are great. He made it holy because it was the day when he rested from all of his work of creation. And so in order to really clarify worship, we've got to first clarify holiness, that God made the Sabbath holy. And again, holy is one of those churchy words that we don't always have a clear definition for. And depending on what kind of church circles that you grew up in, holiness might to you bring in the image of a person who is holier than thou, right? And in that mindset, holy means like morality, external goodness. And you have people in mind that maybe fake this level of I'm better than you are. There's oftentimes holiness means this morally goodness. And the Christian church can often have this holier than thou attitude. We are the holy people.

You are the unholy people. Come to us to become holy, right? We have this idea of moral, moral goodness attached to holiness. Maybe it's a primary adjective that you have to describe God, that God is holy. We sing about the holiness of God a lot. So we have these different definitions swirling around in our head. And many of you who grew up in church probably know that at the root of the word holy, its most basic term, it literally means to be set apart for a special purpose. And so this is what God does when he makes the Sabbath holy. He sets a day, a week, one day, a week, 24 hours. He sets it apart for a special purpose. And again, in my house, I like to say we're practical people. My parents, when we did the wedding registry, my dad, every time he comes over to my house,

he makes sure to pull out one of our plates and say, remember, I bought you this plate. This is a really nice looking plate. I hate to tell him this now in front of all of you, but I mostly just use like four green like plastic rubber plates that we got from Target when we had a kid because it's like, I don't know, it's just easier to clean. It feels less weird when I let the dog lick the crumbs off of it. I don't know, it just feels like it's practical. But my wife, she loves to decorate for Christmas and she has like these Christmas plates that were kind of given to her by her mother that she had on her table around Christmas time. And so like 11 and a half months out of the year, we eat on these green plastic Target plates that I love.

I'm so thankful for them. They're great. But we pull out these Christmas plates. They are set apart for a special purpose. We use them intentionally for a reason to kind of set apart this time of Christmas as this family time that we're coming together to celebrate. It's rooted in tradition and family. And so this is kind of the idea of holiness that God set this day apart from before. It's important that we mentioned before sin ever entered the world. So it's not moral goodness because all that exists in the garden is goodness. He sets it apart for a special purpose and seemingly a spiritual purpose. And I also love, and I want to point out here that God, the first thing that he sets apart as holy is not a place that you have to go to, but it is time. Time is something that we all

have. And there are many ancient religions, including Judaism, that have the concept of holy buildings or holy mountains. But from the beginning, God sets apart a day as holy as a way of saying that a relationship with him is available to anyone, right? Think about the implications of this. We all have time. And so for God before the fall to set aside time as holy, as sacred, it's almost as if he's saying anyone who would just receive the invitation that I've set this day apart for me, like they can experience a relationship with me. It's this holy opportunity, and it's available to everyone. You don't have to travel long distances or climb high mountains to find God. Can I get an amen? It's something that every living person has access to, rich, poor, successful, unsuccessful, religious, or irreligious. God is accessible to all who seek him.

And this is the overarching narrative of Scripture. Sabbath is just one way in which God communicates this truth, but it is all over the Scriptures. And it is the point of the Scriptures that God wants a relationship with you, and he will go to the greatest of lengths to make that happen. This is the gospel that he sent his one and only son to demonstrate to us, to invite us into the fact that he will do whatever it takes to have a relationship with his people. Deuteronomy chapter four. But from there, you will search again for the Lord, your God. And if you search him with all of your heart and with all of your soul, you will find him. If we seek God, he will be found. From the very beginning, he set aside time as holy to say, if you want a relationship with me, just receive this

invitation. And what's beautiful about the context of the Deuteronomy passage is essentially Moses is saying like, hey, you're going to go into the promised land. You're going to be distracted by the adult, the idolatry of the people inhabiting the land, and you're not going to listen to anything God told you to do. These things that you agreed to, the things that you told God you were going to do, he brought you out of slavery in Egypt. He provided for you in the wilderness. He's going to take you into the promised land, and then you are going to reject him. And he kind of gives this prophecy of like, but then, but then after you reject and disobey and run away from, if you search for him, you will find him. And I just, I can't help but think there are some people in the room today who have done

that, who have ran away, who have maybe at some point in their life committed their lives to Christ and said, I'm going to follow you. I'm going to do all these things. And life hasn't worked out the way that you intended. And maybe you've made some unintentional or some intentional decisions that have taken you down a path that have led you far, far away from God. And I just feel the Lord telling me this morning that, that he needs you to know that if you seek him again, you will find him. That he has set aside time. Like you don't have to go somewhere special. You don't have to come to somebody with a, with a collar on, which I don't have. So you're out of luck. Like God can be found if you seek him. So I love that, that God from the beginning, he sets apart the Sabbath day as

holy. It's, it's for a special purpose. But what is that special purpose? We don't have a lot of clarity from the Genesis passage, right? We just have this word holy. It's set apart. It's special. But what is it special for? Well, we get some clarity later in Exodus when he expounds on this command. Exodus chapter 16, verse 23 says, this is what the Lord commanded. Tomorrow will be a day of complete rest. A holy set apart Sabbath day. And what is it set apart for? The Lord. So first in Genesis, we get, okay, God sets this day apart as holy, separate. But now we get some more clarity. It's set apart for the Lord. I would say this way, that Sabbath is ultimately an invitation for worship. The passage in Exodus expands our definition of what exactly Sabbath is set apart for. It's set apart for the Lord. So yes,

everything that we've talked about up to this point, stopping, resting, and delighting are all things that we can find out about what Sabbath is, the practical things that we do on Sabbath. All of that we've, we've, we've teased out from Scripture. We've said, this is what you do on the Sabbath. You stop, you rest, you delight. But what is the purpose of all of those things? The purpose of all of those things is for the Lord. Stopping, resting, and delighting is for the Lord. It's for you and the Lord. It's for seeking him and finding him. It's ultimately for worship. And I think this is why later in Exodus, Moses will implore the people to keep the Sabbath holy. And whenever I've read that passage in the past, I always thought it was just like,

hey, don't forget to do the Sabbath. But I don't think it's about doing the Sabbath. I think it's pretty, like it was built into the fabric of their culture that they would do the Sabbath. But I think what Moses is saying is make sure you keep it holy. Make sure you don't just do the things of Sabbath. You don't just stop. You don't just rest. You don't just delight. But you do those things in a way that posture you towards God in relationship with him. You have to keep it holy.

And all of this, this setting apart for God leads us to this idea of worship. Because typically when God sets something apart for himself, the purpose is worship. You can read about this in the construction of the tabernacle that God sets apart things, a tent, a space. All of the instruments in the tabernacle, they're set apart as items that are holy. And those items are meant to lead Israel in this practice of worship. They're set apart for the purpose of worship. But again, worship is one of those churchy words that we, I don't think we don't know what it means. I just think we have a very narrow definition of what it means. It has come to be used of the music that we sing, the service that we have. It typically is, for most Christians, kind of shrunken down to like a two-hour service on a Sunday morning. Or if

you're lucky and you go to campus, an hour and 15 minutes sermon service. And so we've narrowed our definition of what worship is. But ultimately, again, it's at its most basic definition, worship is bowing down or surrender. So Sabbath is an invitation from God to stop, rest, delight in such a way that leads you to grow and surrender to God. I love babies, man. They're the best. Keep having them, by the way, Canvas. You want a multi-generational church? You want to grow the kingdom of God? Like, just keep having babies if you can. And then I say that, like, we've had our struggles. Like, I'm not, I know some of you are trying and it's not working and that's, we're praying for you. But if you can, keep having them. We love them. Thank you all. And some of our campus people are popping out two at a time, right?

Like, great work, right? That the value, the value there is, I love it. Thank you, brother. Thank you. Okay. Which leads us to worship, bowing down, surrender. One of the things I love to do in Bible study is look for the first time a word is used because oftentimes that sets up the definition for that word throughout the rest of Scripture. It's a biblical, it's a hermeneutical term called principle of first use. So you guys learned some stuff there. That's why I spent a lot of money to be able to say that sentence so eloquently. And one of the first times the word worship is used in the Hebrew Bible. It's when Abraham says that he is going up the mountain to sacrifice his son Isaac on the altar before God. It is Abraham taking a gift that was given to him by God and giving it back

to God with a posture of surrender. This is ultimately what worship is. It's when we take anything that God has given to us as a gift and we offer it back to him with a posture of surrender. So we take this day, God has given us a day. He's given us 24 hours a week for stopping and for resting and for delighting. And we say, God, I'm receiving these gifts that you have given to me and I'm receiving them in such a way that leads me to grow in my surrender to you. I'm receiving this gift of rest, this gift of not finding my identity in what I accomplished, but in who I am as your son or your daughter. I'm enjoying the community and fellowship that you have put into my life through my family

and my community. I'm enjoying good food as a gift from you, the breath in my lungs as a gift from you. And I am doing so in such a way that postures me towards growing in surrender to you. Worship is any activity that is aimed at surrender to someone or something. And that's, again, I don't think calling what we do on Sunday mornings with music worship is bad because if you think about the songs that we sing, we are setting apart a song for a special purpose to help us grow in surrender to God. Think about the words that we sang this morning. We set apart a song for the special purpose of inspiring and encouraging and challenging those of us who are singing that song to grow in our ability to surrender to God. Worship is an activity aimed at surrender to someone or someone in something. And the question

is not, will you worship? This is a bad church question. Will you worship? No, we all worship. We all surrender our time, our energy, our attention, and our resources to someone or something. The question is not, will I worship? But what am I worshiping? And this is why I wanted to end the series on this message because we can do Sabbath practices in such a way that doesn't lead us to worship God, but to worship rest and our desires. It can become an individualistic experience that just makes me feel good, that it becomes all about me and all about the joy that I get from stopping working and from enjoying food and wine and whatever things you do on your Sabbath. There's a way in which we can enjoy God's creation that does not increase our surrender to him.

And this is misplaced worship. If we're intentional, Sabbath can become an individualistic practice focused on our own experience of rest and pleasure rather than the invitation to enjoy rest and pleasure as a gift from God who is inviting us into a relationship with him and surrender to him. I love how Walter Brueggemann puts it. He says, worship, this is Christian worship, this is worship of God, is the work of forming a counter-community with different loyalties. It is this activity that we participate in that creates in us a different kind of people with different kinds of loyalties. And what better way to do that than Sabbath in a culture that is nonstop, continuous, finding their identity and their value and their activities and their achievements and their work? Worship is this invitation for us to say, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Your value, your identity,

your worth is found because you are created in the image of a God who loves you and wants a relationship with you. We're going to model for you what that looks like. We're going to take a day, a week where we're not going to run the rat race with you. We're just going to receive gifts from our father. We're going to invite you to see God as a good father who gives good gifts. Sabbath is an invitation to stop the grind of our ordinary lives that pull us towards surrender to lesser things and refocus our attention on God as the only one who is truly worthy of our surrender.

We all are worshiping something. I don't want to get ahead of myself. I just realized that that's in my notes later and I have a tendency of doing that. So I'm excited about something. We'll get there in a minute. All right. So Sabbath is this invitation. It's a day set apart as holy. It's a day set apart as holy for the Lord, which I would argue ultimately is worship surrender. And so then the question becomes, are we receiving Sabbath as an invitation to increase our surrender? Are we receiving this practice in such a way that leads us to realize that God is the giver of all good gifts? And because he gives good gifts, we can give those gifts back to him. There's an abundance of good gifts. We don't have to cling to them or hold onto them or chase after getting more, accumulating

more. And that is the narrative of the world around us. We've got to get ours and we've got to put it away in safety. And worship is no, God is a giver of good gifts. I'm going to receive them in a way that I can give them back to him in worship and surrender. So are we doing Sabbath in such a way where we're acknowledging that the good things that we're experienced are actually gifts from God that he intended to give us because he is a good father. And because he is a good father, he is worthy of our surrender in every area of our life. All seven days of the week. If this is how good he is on this day that he set apart for us as holy, then that means we can trust him with all other six days. And every gift that we

have, we can have with open hands and we can trust him. This is Abraham's testimony in this really weird and hard to wrestle with passage where he's offering his son up as a sacrifice. It's him saying, you gave me this gift. You gave me this promise. And I don't understand what you're doing and asking for it back, but I trust you because you're a good father. And at the climax of that passage, God ultimately does not take his son away, right? He provides everything that they need. It's an exercise and are we willing to trust God with the gifts that he's given us? It's acknowledging that our lives are a gift, but gift both given and sustained by him. And the thing that will actually lead to the abundant life we desire is not seizing our own autonomy from him,

but increasing our surrender to him. And that's the most exhaust, that's the most like heartbreaking thing for me as a pastor, as I work with people that like want the abundant life that God promises and offers them. And they're trying to achieve it and accomplish it and get it with their own power and their own might. And it's not working out. And it feels disingenuous and frustrating to say, no, actually you've got to like surrender everything and then you'll get the thing that you're looking for. But that is the answer. And Sabbath is this weekly opportunity for us to grow in our knowledge that he is worthy of our worship. I heard this quote this week, trust is the imprint of experience. And that, I love, I love this because it's not, it's not that God is asking us to blindly

surrender everything to him when we know nothing about him out of fear or obligation or anxiety or a ticket to some eternal paradise that we want. No, no surrender. Trust is this thing that grows in us, as we experience God as good. It's the imprint that God puts inside of us as we experience him as good. And Sabbath is this invitation to grow in the experience of God's goodness, which in turn should grow our surrender. But only if we receive Sabbath as a gift from God, the giver of all good gifts. Is that making sense? Okay. Sabbath is an invitation to experience God as the source of every good gift. But you and I both know that we are divided beings, physical and spiritual, and we are prone to wander. We are prone to get fixated on the gifts of God without acknowledging him as the source of God. And when this happens, chasing pleasure overtakes our desire for increased surrender.

There's a way in which we take hold of God's gifts and we enjoy pleasure that comes from those gifts. And then we forget the fact that like those gifts are actually ultimately just aimed at getting us closer to God, who is the giver of even better gifts. We get fixated on, it's Smeagol with a ring, right? My precious. This is what we can do if we're not careful. And what happens then is worship turns to idolatry. It's still worship. It's just worshiping lesser things. So we've got to be careful that the gifts of God are ultimately received in a posture of surrender. And they're received in a posture that that leads us to ultimately trust him more than trusting in the experience of the pleasure that he gave us. This is a whole book of Ecclesiastes, by the way, if you're bored and want to be depressed

this week. I actually am encouraged by the book of Ecclesiastes, but most people who read it are depressed. It is Solomon who has all of the pleasures of this world trying to find satisfaction in the pleasures of this world. And at the end of it all, he says, it's meaningless. It's all meaningless. From dust we came into dust we shall return. You want to hear more about that? Come to the Ash Wednesday service. It's going to be awesome. Depressing, but awesome and hopeful. All right. Well, we were trying to plan on the attendance, and so I'll just guess 20 of you will show up. That'll be great.

There's a way in which we can chase after pleasure and goodness. And the thing that's hopeful about the book of Ecclesiastes is the whole overarching thesis is everything under the sun is meaningless. But built into that phrase is this idea that actually there's something greater than the physical world happening. That there is a God who is beyond all of our physical temporary pleasures. And actually, he gave those temporary pleasures as a gift to point us to him. When we have a good experience on life, the goal for that experience is actually that we would see, oh, like, where did this come from? Right? Like, as parents who give good gifts to your children, how often do you give a gift to your child, and they would, like, rip it open and are pumped by it

and run away to play with it? And you're like, hey, buddy. Like, just one thank you would be great. Right? Like, we give gifts to our children because we want them to know that we love them, that our heart is towards them, and we want them to see. Like, the goal of that gift for me is like, oh, like, I love you, buddy. But how often do we take God's gifts and, like, just run away with them and never acknowledge that he's the giver of those good gifts? I love this quote from Steve DeWitt. He says, beauty is both a gift and a map. It is a gift to be enjoyed and a map to be followed back to the source of beauty with worship and thanksgiving. And this is what the invitation of Sabbath is.

It is a gift. You're supposed to enjoy Sabbath. You're supposed to be recharged through resting and delighting in God's goodness. You're supposed to enjoy these things. But there's a way in which you can enjoy God's gifts without letting them lead you back to surrender to him. And there's a way in which we can do this where we'll miss the point entirely, like my feeble efforts to declutter my house where I'm just shuffling things around. We receive God's gifts, his goodness, as a map back to him. As we experience him as good, we grow in our surrender to him, and we grow in our ability to not put eternal value in temporary things.

I would summarize the whole message this way. If you're a note taker and you want to know what it is that I just said for the last 35 minutes, I think it's this, hopefully. Sabbath is a day set apart, made holy for God, where we grow in surrender, worship to him through experiencing him as the source of every good gift. I think we have it. I'll say it again. Sabbath is a day set apart for God, where we grow in surrender to him through experiencing him as the source of every good gift. It's a holy day set apart for worship through the experience of beauty. And my pastoral encouragement to all of us is would we consider taking steps to receive this invitation? It's not an easy thing to do in our culture to set aside a day

to just receive God's goodness, to set aside your obligations, your hopes for your child's D1 scholarship, your whatever thing it is that you're trying to accomplish with all of the extra work and busyness of life. It's not easy, but I'd encourage you to think about receiving this invitation because I believe this invitation will increase your surrender to God. And as you increase your surrender to God, the abundant life that you are chasing after in temporary things will be provided for you from the source of all good gifts. A holy day set apart for worship through the experience of beauty. And I would just say, if everything in you, if everything in you is resistant to this practice, what might that say about what you're actually worshiping? I don't care what practical excuses you have, whatever things are running through your mind, but yeah, but yeah, but yeah, but I would say they're probably a verbal admission of idolatry.

And that's a hard thing for a pastor to say because I love you guys and I don't want to say hard things. But I, something that I need to say to myself, when I come up with excuses and reasons why I'm not going to do the thing God asked me to do, it's idolatry. And if you are practicing Sabbath, but you're doing so in a way that enjoys the gifts without growing in surrender to the giver, how might you adjust your practices moving forward?

Some of you, some of you have margin in your life and you do lots of pleasurable, enjoyable things. You wouldn't call it Sabbath, but it functions like Sabbath. My question for you is, are you doing those things? Are you enjoying God's creation? Are you going to the, to your beach house? Which I'm so glad that God has blessed you with that. Are you going to that and with a posture of worship? God, I don't deserve this. This is such a good gift from you. Or are you just enjoying pleasure, earthly pleasure?

I want to end this part of the message reading this long quote from a book that I've come back to over and over and over again. I've read it, like, I've had to buy three copies of this thing because I always lose it. It's not a popular book, so the author is probably like, sweet. Somebody bought my book again. It's like, no, Ryan bought it again. You didn't sell a new copy. You just, Ryan bought it again. It's about, yeah. I just, I just, I just spent some time yesterday giving my mom a beautiful compliment to herself and to people in front of her. That, well, behind her back, I complimented her. So, I don't feel so guilty making a joke right now.

One time we were driving home at about 9 p.m. 9 p.m. Let me say it again, 9 p.m. And I mean, the moon was magnificent. Large, orange tint. I mean, beautiful. And my mom, God love her, from the front of the car, she said, the moon is beautiful. Or is that the sun? And I mean, we'll never let her live that down to this day. It was probably like 7.30. So, like, it's become later and later the more we tell the story. When I tell it, it's 9 o'clock.

But that's, the illustration this author uses is this idea that oftentimes we, the moon is just a reflection from the light of the sun. And oftentimes, like, we can live our lives just obsessed with the reflection of God's goodness while we're missing out on God himself. Let me read this. I am reminded of the difference between the sun and the moon. If all you had ever seen was a full moon, you might think it was the sun. Mom. After all, there are great similarities. A full moon is big and bright. If you thought that that was all there was, imagine what it would be like to suddenly see the sun in all of its brilliance. The moon would be usurped in your evaluation by something more magnificently brilliant and beautiful. You would never look at the moon the same way again.

There would still be much to enjoy about the moonlight, but it would be enjoyed for what it is, a reflected light. Every created pleasure and beauty that we have ever enjoyed in this world is like moonlight. Void of any comparison, they seem like the best this life has to offer. But through the gospel and the Holy Spirit, we have seen the radiant glory of the beautiful one, Christ. And this changes our perspective on the pleasure of moonlight beauty. We used to worship reflections, but through the gospel and the Holy Spirit, we discern a better beauty. Until we see the beauty of Christ, we will never see the true beauty of anything else. And once we discern his glory, we enjoy the moonlight of created beauties all the more because they remind us of him. In fact, now we enjoy the moon because we love the sun.

Jesus is the person we love. The created world is his reflection. If we love him, we will love every resemblance of him and see every good and true in the universe as a picture of him. The universe is all about him. And Christians have the joy of seeing him in all the created wonders of this world. This is a spirit-enabled perspective that turns wonders, sensory experience of beauty into occasions for joy, reflection, and worship. Sabbath is a day set apart for us to enjoy God's gifts and grow and surrender to him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you're so good. You give such good gifts. And God, the temptation for all of us, no matter how much time we spent in the prayer closet this morning, the temptation for all of us is to leave your presence and grasp onto earthly things.

God, today, give us eyes to see our idolatry. Most of us are gonna turn on a football game tonight that has probably six hours of pre-game coverage because we're worshipers. God, we're longing to find hope and satisfaction, security, and joy. And we look for it in such silly places. God, as we watch a game tonight that's fun and entertaining, may we view it as such. Lead us away from our idolatry and into growing surrender to you. God, may we be a countercultural community with different loyalties.

God, teach us to surrender. Help us to receive your grace and your forgiveness when we don't. There is no condemnation for those of us who are in Christ. God, many of us in this room are probably aware of so many areas where we are idolaters, myself included.

As you bring those things to our minds, may the result not be guilt and shame. May the result be gratitude and surrender. God, thank you for showing me the ways in which I have overinvested in temporary things. Moving forward, give me the strength and the ability to receive surrender. We love you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're going to take communion together, if you've got some on your way in.
