Sunday @ Canvas Community Church
2026-08-10
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0thnS6ZKDm8

. . . Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

We've seen the table set up with the bookmarks. There are prayer bookmarks. We've done these for the last few years. It has each elementary, middle, and high school student has their names on the bookmarks. Young adults are also included. On the way in or out of service, make sure you grab one for someone that's not in your own family. And commit to be praying for them by name throughout this coming academic year. The 2026 C3 Men's Retreat will be held at Camp High Road in Middleburg this year. Sign up for a full weekend, which is different than before. If you sign up before September 7th, you get a $10 early bird discount. Our Flairish Women's Ministry is hosting a Ladies Retreat October 2nd through 4th in Falling Waters, West Virginia. It is such a good time.

Join us for a fun and refreshing weekend filled with worship, a special guest speaker, meaningful conversations, camp-style activities, games, crafts, great food, laughter, and a time to rest and connect with other women. You can sign up online. If you have any questions, you can ask me or Taylor or Sarah Flynn again. It's going to be a good time, and we hope you guys can join us. That's it for today. Let's stand in worship. Taylor, this morning, church. Thanks, Samantha. You want to hear about husband of the year? Corey was supposed to do announcements this morning, and he volunteered his life. And she nailed it. Thank you, Sarah. Welcome to the house of the Lord this morning. I'll be ready to praise Jesus with all you've got. Forget about lunch, forget about all your plans, and let's just spend some time up on the floor.

In my wrestling, in my doubts, in my feelings, won't fall down. Your brave love will lead me through. You are the peace in my trouble. You are the peace in my trouble. You are the peace in my trouble.

Juliana, say hi to everybody. Hi, everybody. It's Juliana. She is one of our students here at Cultivate Youth Group. I was at summer camp. Rededicated her life to the Lord. And has just been asking to get baptized. And here she is. So we're really excited. Don't do that, Juliana. You know me. Don't do that. Juliana, you place your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, the Savior of your life. Well, I have the wonderful honor and privilege to baptize you today. We'll do something with the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

We'll do something with the Father, the Holy Spirit. We'll do something with the Father, the Holy Spirit. We'll do something with the Father, the Holy Spirit.

We'll do something with the Father. Next is my new friend Jordan and his friend Deshaun. And I have the privilege of when people want to get baptized, they fill out a form. And it comes to me first. I get to kind of read what's stirring in their heart and their life. And we've had a little bit of time to talk. I don't know all of that's going on in his life, but I know he's got a lot going on. And one of the things he wrote is there's been a lot of trials and tribulations in my life. But when I open up my eyes to see Jesus is real. And as we were singing that song, "My Lighthouse," I was singing about what Jordan wrote in his testimony. And that part of his desire for him to be baptized is to keep his eyes on Jesus in the midst of his storms,

in the midst of his difficulties. And before he baptized him, I just wanted to pray for him. Again, I don't know the specifics. I don't know what he's going through. I know he's going through a lot. And, you know, we talked last week that oftentimes we come out of bats in the waters. And that's why I don't want you to have a fishing boat. We go through the same day. And some days it's the easiest trip you've ever made. And it's beautiful. And the sun's out. And it's smooth. And there's no waves. And other times, winds crashing. Tides are pulling us in all different directions. And it's that lighthouse, that anchoring point, that keeps us grounded and rooted and not swayed by fear or anxiety or suffering. And so, Lord, I just want to pray that over to you right now.

And so, church, if you just join me. Father in heaven, I thank you for Jordan and for his life. I thank you for the way in which you are obviously working. The space that you have given him to trust. That Jesus is going to get him through. Whatever storms, whatever trials, whatever difficulties he's facing now and whatever difficulties he's facing in the future, he has a lighthouse, a beacon of hope that he can anchor himself to. And God, we pray for smoother seasons. We pray for blessing and abundance and joy on the other side of these waters. But if they don't come, God, I pray that you would have a community around him to keep him rooted in who you are. God bless him. God bless this decision he's making. In Jesus' name, my friends.

God bless you. Jordan. I pledge your faith to trust in our Lord's Savior, Jesus Christ. What is all the privilege to honor and to baptize you in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. I'm no longer sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I'm no longer sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I'm no longer sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God.

Are you hurting, broken or dead, overwhelmed by the weight of your sin? Jesus is called. Have you come to the end of your sin? Do you thirst for a drink from the well? Jesus is going to come to the altar. The Father's arms are open wide. Forgiveness was part of the precious blood of Jesus. I'm no longer sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I'm no longer sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I'm no longer sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I'm not sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I'm not sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I'm not sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God.

I am sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I am sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I am sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am the Son of God. I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping. I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping. I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping, oh, I am sleeping. We sing the wonderful, sweet Alleluia, Christ is risen. We bow down before Him, for His love, sweet Alleluia. Christ is risen. Oh, come to the open, the fire of our Lord, forgiveness was coming, the precious love of Jesus Christ.

Oh, come to the open, the fire of our Lord, forgiveness was coming, the precious love of Jesus Christ. Oh, come to the open, the fire of our Lord, forgiveness was coming. Oh, come to the open, the fire of our Lord, forgiveness was coming. Oh, come to the open, the fire of our Lord, forgiveness was coming.

Lord Jesus, we pray that we bow to you, that we bow within me, and we give everything, our breath and our lungs to you, Lord Jesus. We pray for those that got baptized today, we celebrate with them. We celebrate them with them as a family. We will be known, we will be loved now, and we will be loved now. Lord Jesus, I am so grateful for this day that we have here. Lord, I just pray for Ryan and his message today, that you just infiltrate every pore of his body. And you just give him every message that he needs to say to our congregation for what we need today. That every person is listening. And we open our eyes and our ears to the word of your Lord Jesus. We pray this in your name. Amen.

All right. Well, we are continuing our series through the book of Revelation, the one that everyone wanted so badly. Hopefully it has lived up to your hopes, dreams, and expectations. It has definitely been formative for me as I grew up in a culture where the book of Revelation was dramatized and made into movies. And really, there's a way in which we can think about the future and the end times that are not necessarily rooted in the imagery that John wants us to feel. And Daryl Johnson, the commentator that I've been quoting a lot, he refers to the book of Revelation as a discipleship manual. That the images that John is giving us are intended to develop in us faithful obedience to Jesus. And so if there's a way in which we read this book that doesn't do that, then we're missing the point.

And so hopefully we've been kind of tracking along with the images that John is sharing. And it's helping us get a clearer picture for what it looks like to faithfully follow Jesus. Again, and we said it's not a puzzle to decode. It's not primarily about future events. It's about the revealing of Jesus Christ. Two, first and foremost, seven real churches in Asia Minor that had a couple of different experiences. Some of them were suffering persecution for their faithfulness to Jesus. Some of them were kind of blending themselves in with the culture around them, compromising the faith that is in them. And some of them is just outright rebellious, just outright ignoring the message of Jesus. And John has these images and these warnings and these thoughts. And all of them are centered around the slain lamb sitting on the throne.

This reminder that there is a king sitting on the throne in the heavenly places. And that no matter what things look like on earth, no matter what might be happening in the visible realities of present realities that we can see, there is a greater and more present spiritual reality that we need to get our eyes around. I've used this graphic a few times so far. I just want to keep coming back to it so that we remember what the book of Revelation is. This is an image that we created for our Ephesians series that at the death, burial, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus, this time period and launch is for the church, where the church is from every language, tribe, nation, and tongue, people who submit to the lordship of Jesus, and we're waiting the return of Jesus.

And we kind of cut out this bottom half of heaven. And what John is doing is he's pulling back the curtain of the heavenly realities so that we who find ourselves in between the inauguration and consummation of the kingdom of God have a picture of what is true and real in the heavenly realities. Does that make sense? And I realize that I've been using this language. I think me, Kent, and maybe Corey have all used this language of inauguration and consummation, and I don't know that we really explained it. So before we kind of get in, I want to make sure that we all understand what I mean when I'm saying that. And we have a really clear way to illustrate this in American politics. I'm going to switch this back because I can just see this ending badly for me.

I changed the script and didn't use the short bumper video, and now I messed everybody up. All right. So we have a clear way for us to illustrate this in American politics because we have elections that happen in the month of November, and then we have inaugurations that happen in the month of January of the next year, right? Okay. I knew that. I was a good student. I listened to history class. All right. So there's this period of time where we know who the new president is going to be, who the new ruler is going to be, who the new prominent political figure is going to be. But he does not take full kind of ownership of the direction of the nation until the inauguration. And so what we have here, when we're talking about inauguration and confirmation, at the ascension of Jesus, we have him seated on the throne in the heavenly places.

He is ruling and reigning in the kingdom of God in the heavenly places, and there will come a day when he will bring that rule and reign fully to earth and new creation. And so that's what we're waiting for, and it is a present reality that exists even if we can't see it. That's what we put our hope and our faith in as believers. That's what we sing about, the lighthouse, these anchoring points, that there is times in our lives and in the world and in the nations that we exist in where it does not look like there is anyone on the throne. And we put our faith and our trust in the fact that Jesus did die, raise, and ascend into heaven. And if that is the case, then even if it doesn't look like it on earth, that we can have hope and confidence in that.

And that's what John wants his readers to understand in the book of Revelation. Make sense? All right. So let's pray, and then we'll kind of continue on. We're headed into chapters 13 and 14 today. We're making good progress, rounding probably, we're almost rounding third base. If you get our newsletter, you should have seen a short video for me and a questionnaire that Kent would like you to fill out if you'd like to participate. He started in Revelation chapter 1 saying this book is meant to inform the way that we behave, inform the way that we live. How do we put these words of prophecy into action? And he's looking for some feedback. Now that we've worked our way through the book for a while, what are some things that you think this book is challenging you to live differently in light of?

So if you can give him like a short synopsis, he's going to use that for his sermon in a couple of weeks. Cool. Let's pray. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, we are grateful for just another Sunday, the day in which we memorialize your resurrection. Another day to remember that no matter what the present circumstances of our lives and our nations and our world looks like, that you are risen, reigning, and seated on the throne. And that there is a hope for the future that goes beyond any temporary circumstances or situations. And so, God, get our eyes off of our circumstances and into the heavenly realms this morning. Help us to see the way in which what is true in the heavenly places right now is impacting our earthly world in a way that we're just typically not aware of.

We don't meditate on these things enough, and so just remind us of what we need to be reminded of. And, God, I just pray that you would just communicate a far greater sermon than I've written to these people for your glory, for our good, and for the good of our neighbors. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen. It is getting to be that time of the year where the empty box stores are going to quickly transition into, can anybody guess, spirit of the Halloween stores. Yes, do we know this thing happens? We know these empty box stores really quickly become spirit of Halloween stores where you can get the creme de la creme of Halloween costumes at a valuable price. And so, this week I went through and I grabbed a couple pictures of my favorite of these costumes.

I'd love to show the first one here. This is obviously Mario, right? Incorrect. It is Red Plumber Guy. Red Plumber Guy. And the next one is an Oompa Loompa from Willy Wonka. Incorrect. It is Factory Worker Girl with Bad Spray Tan. Okay. We've got two more and my favorites at the end. All right. We've got a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle. Wrong. We have Pre-Tubescent Frog of Silent War. All right. And my favorite, last but not least, we have Wednesday from the Addams Family. No, incorrect. We have Evil Midweek Cutie. These, these are fun. I must admit, these are fun. And the reason I share them is because I think they set up for us what the images that John is going to give us in Chapter 13 and 14 about what the enemy, the red dragon that we talked about last week in Chapter 12, what he is up to in the present reality of the world.

See, last week in Chapter 12, we saw this dragon, this red dragon figure who did everything he could to defeat God all the way up to the point of trying to have him killed. He thought in his arrogance that if he killed the image, the Son of God, that then he would have victory, jokes on him, resurrection. And we see in Chapter 12, hopefully you remember the key word, that the dragon was, you guys are so good. God, I've never been more proud. The dragon was thrown down to the earthly realm, and he's, in a sense, already been defeated, and yet, in another sense, is still flailing and trying to cause as much damage as he possibly can before the consummation of the kingdom of God. And what John is going to say to us in Chapter 13 and 14 is that his last bit strategy, the only thing the dragon can do now, between the ascension of Jesus and the second coming of Jesus, is he can imitate.

Like those bad Halloween costumes, he can try and present himself as something that looks like the kingdom of God, and get you to give your allegiance to something less than the true and real kingdom of God. If he cannot earn the worship of God, then he will deceive and manipulate us into worshiping something that looks like God, that he is a puppet master behind. Again, just like these costumes imitate the real thing, we're going to see in Revelation 13 and 14 that the dragon's last-ditch effort is to thwart God's plan by imitating him. And we've all heard the phrase, "Imitation is the highest form of..." By even the strategy that he initiates, he is admitting defeat. And this should encourage us, this should remind us that if this is his strategy, then ultimately we know that the battle has already been lost.

My main point this morning that I'm going to keep coming back to and hopefully will frame the way that we think about Chapters 13 and 14 is this: "The dragon counterfeits God's kingdom to compete for our worship and allegiance." This is what Chapters 13 and 14 are all about. Satan will rarely ask us to worship something that looks evil, especially at the beginning. It might get to a point, the snowball bite rolled down the counterfeit kingdom, where at the end there's things that we're doing that are blatantly evil, but at the beginning he's just imitating things that look like the kingdom of God, and getting us to give our allegiance and worship to it. And in Chapters 13 and 14 we're going to see three Satan-like figures that are seeking to draw people away from the worship of God.

And really that approach is twofold. One, he wants to draw people who are already in the church. Remember, John's writing to seven churches, two of which, two groups of which are either compromising to the culture around them or just in downright rebellion. John's saying this is the strategy of the enemy. He's trying to get those of you who have placed your faith in Jesus to lose sight of the kingdom of God and place your faith and trust in anything other than the kingdom. And John, even in his seven letters at the beginning of Chapters 2 and 3, he's saying the enemy's having some success with some of you. You've lost sight of what the true kingdom is. So he's either trying to draw people from the church out of worship or he's going to manipulate the power structures in the world to persecute the church so that more faithful followers will reject God and worship him instead.

And what's happening throughout the Roman Empire. We see Rome very heavily persecuting the church. And what John is saying is that the dragon is behind this. But this is not Rome persecuting the church. This is the dragon at work to persecute the church. And many scholars refer to these three images as the unholy trinity. That it's clear that what the dragon is doing is just trying to act as if he is the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. But instead of having authority over all of the cosmos, he just has temporary authority over the earthly places that he's been given authority to. He doesn't have any authority that hasn't been given to him. The dragon is going to resemble the Father because he functions first and foremost in the heavenly realms before he is.

You guys are awesome. And then in verse 13, or chapter 13, we're going to see the beast of the sea who's going to function as a counterfeit Jesus and his kingdom. And then we're going to see the beast of the earth who resembles the Holy Spirit and manifests miraculous things symbolized by both fire and breath. Thankfully, if you're a student of the Scriptures, you hear fire and you hear breath and you think, Holy Spirit. And all of this is done for the purpose of stealing our worship and the glory that is due the Creator God. And again, I would say it's a subtle admission that he knows he has been defeated. So, let's look first at the beast of the sea in chapter 13. So, in chapter 12 ends, the dragon is thrown down and he's standing on the sand of the sea.

And it says, John says, I saw a beast rising out of the sea with ten horns, seven heads and ten crowns on its horns and blasphemous names on its head. And the beast I saw was like a leopard and its feet were like bears and its mouth was like a lion's mouth. And to it, the dragon gave his power and his throne and great authority. One of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its mortal wound was healed and the whole earth marveled as they followed the beast. So, are you hearing the counterfeit kingdom imagery here? We'll unpack it more, but just try and pull it out as we're reading. And they worshiped the dragon for he had given his authority to the beast. And they worshiped the beast saying, who is like the beast and who can fight against it?

And the beast was given a mouth uttering haughty and blasphemous words. And it was allowed, again, already defeated, allowed to exercise authority for 42 months. This is our three and a half years. This is just a symbol of temporary. It's short-lived. It won't last forever. It opened its mouth to utter blasphemings against God, blaspheming his name and his dwelling. That is those who dwell in heaven. Also, it was allowed to make war on the saints and to conquer them. And authority was given it over every tribe and people and language and nation. All who dwell on the earth will worship it. So we see a beast rising out of the ocean. And it is a hybrid of a leopard, a bear, and a lion. And the dragon gives it authority. And remember, we've talked in the past that almost all of the images found in the book of Revelation are not new.

They are recycled from the Old Testament. And this one is one of the most clear recycled images. We find this from the book of Daniel, chapter 7, where he talks about where King Nebuchadnezzar gives a vision of a leopard, a bear, and a lion. And they clearly, in that dream, in that imagery, in the unpacking of that, they clearly refer to worldly empires that will follow Babylon. Earthly political leaders that will gain power and influence and will promise that if the people of the earth give their allegiance to it, that they will prosper. So, again, hopefully we can see how this is an imitation of what Jesus offers. Jesus is. Jesus is, whether we acknowledge it or not, he's a prominent political leader who has come to establish a kingdom that is not just an earthly kingdom, but it is an eternal kingdom.

And he proved that he is the only rightful person to rule by sacrificially offering up his life. He was conquered so that he could demonstrate his power over death and Hades. He rose from the dead and he invites anyone who would give their allegiance to his kingdom, both abundant and eternal life. And those who trust in him will conquer through his act of sacrificial love. On the other side of the coin, the sea beast is a prominent political leader who is wounded. He has a mortal wound, but then is healed. Again, imitation, right? The enemy is just taking earthly things and trying to make them look as good as the kingdom of God and get us to put our allegiance and our hope and our worship in them. He conquers through blasphemy and military strength.

He does not invite people to give him worship. He demands that people worship him or they will be conquered. Again, imitation is the greatest form of flattery. John says that in between the inauguration and the consummation of the kingdom of Jesus, earthly leaders will rise. Earthly governments will rise and they are animated by Satan himself. And they will offer temporary safety and security for the price of your allegiance. And I don't think that, I don't think it's a big jump to think that the first century readers would have been thinking about Rome when they read this. And there's lots of scholars that have lots of different opinions. The take that I'm going to say is I think it's true about Rome and I think it's true about lots of empires throughout human history. That the enemy is working through temporary kingdoms to draw you away from allegiance to Jesus and to draw you into allegiance to anything that he can counterfeit to resemble something as good as the kingdom of God.

And in that is going to be this allure because how we conquer, I'm getting ahead of myself, but I'm going to go ahead and do it. How we conquer in the kingdom of God is by following the way of the land, sacrificially laying down our life. And I don't know about you, but that's not fun. And so these counterfeit kingdoms, what they'll do is they'll say you get to join the winning team that has power and control and influence. You get to be a part of this thing that looks like it's winning and it's a lot easier to give your allegiance to something that looks powerful and awesome and looks like it's winning than it is to give your allegiance to a lamb who is slain. And these images are coming to get us to realize that the beast is offering you an imitation kingdom that is temporary and will not ultimately lead to your life and flourishing.

So what I'm drawing out for you here is that literally John says any human being who lives on earth from now until the second coming of Jesus, the second coming of Jesus that does not place their faith, allegiance, and worship in Jesus, they will find themselves worshiping a kingdom that is coming. And even the, we, again, we could debate about how all of this plays out as this one singular kingdom in the future. It doesn't matter. The practical implications are every single human being that does not give their worship and allegiance to Jesus will give it to something else. And that something else is a kingdom that the enemy of God has counterfeited to draw you away from the worship and allegiance of the one true God. The dragon counterfeits God's kingdom and its goal is to compete for our worship and allegiance.

So the question then becomes to whom or to what are you giving your allegiance to? To whom or to what are you worshiping? And just to get even more practical, because allegiance and worship are these like big 30,000 foot words that really, it would be easy for us to say like, yeah, Jesus has my allegiance. Yeah, Jesus has my worship. Let's get really practical. Let me ask you this. What excites your imagination? What fuels your actions on a daily basis? What do you, let's go back to Deuteronomy 6. What do you talk about with your children when you get up? And when you go to bed? And when you're around the dinner table? Is it the kingdom of God or is it something else? And that's going to answer for us really practically this question.

Again, I think it's really easy for Christians to say, yes, God and his kingdom have our ultimate allegiance. But what do we think about? And what do we do? And what do we post on social media? And what do we put our hopes and our dreams in? And what are we afraid of? And what does this reveal about what we actually worship and what we actually place our allegiance in? Are we giving our lives of sacrificial love to the eternal kingdom defined by the image of a lamb who looks like he's been slain? Or are we giving our lives to temporary counterfeit kingdoms defined by comfort, success, power, control? On and on we could go. And I think these are the questions that John wants the disciples of Jesus in the first century to meditate on.

Because it's so easy for us to just slowly, without realizing it, place our allegiance and our worship in things that are counterfeit to the kingdom of God. He goes on and describes the second beast that I think imitates the spirit of God in verse 11. And then I saw another beast rising out of the earth. It had two horns like a lamb and it spoke like a dragon. It exercises all of the authority of the first beast in its presence and makes the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast whose mortal wound was healed. Again, the Holy Spirit comes in ultimately to empower and gift people and to fuel the church to worship Jesus. This is what the dragon is doing. It's trying to use its power to draw attention and worship to the earthly counterfeit kingdoms and empires.

It performs great signs, even making fire come down from heaven to earth in front of people. And by the signs that it is allowed to work in the presence of the beast, it deceives those who dwell on the earth, telling them to make an image for the beast that was wounded by the sword and yet lived. It was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast so that the image of the beast might even speak and might cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be slain. Also, it causes both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the right hand or the forehead so that no one can buy or sell unless he has the mark that is the name of the beast, the number of its name.

This calls for wisdom. Let the one who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, where it is the number of a man and his number is 666. And everybody's been waiting six weeks to get to this point so that I will tell you what the mark of the beast is. I'm not even going to make a joke because I don't know if you guys will know it's a joke and it's just... All right. So the beast of the earth resembles the work of the spirit in the church that it energizes and animates the false gospel and the counterfeit kings and kingdoms with miracles and fire from heaven and breath. It gives breath to dead idols. First, it deceives people into giving their allegiance to the counterfeit king and kingdom. And if it cannot deceive, it will manipulate by the freedom to sell and purchase, safety, security, participation in the earthly kingdom.

The kingdom, it deceives first. And if it can't deceive you, it will manipulate you to give your allegiance to counterfeit kingdoms created by the beast of the sea. And again, I think there's some really clear one-to-one connections to the Roman Empire here. Again, if we're reading this through the lenses of the first century readers, they're going to be thinking a lot about what Rome is doing and how Rome is using the Roman imperial cult, the worship, the religious sacrifices and ceremonial festivities. The empire of Rome had an entire religious system that was used to deceive people into worshiping Rome and thinking Rome was divine and thinking Rome was going to be the thing that was going to provide them eternal life.

They had an entire religious system built to deceive, and then if deception didn't work, they coerced people. Christians were being persecuted and being not able to purchase food because they were Christians and because they didn't have allegiance to the Roman Empire. Again, if it can't deceive you into worshiping with pomp and circumstance, it will coerce you through safety and security, through your hopes, your fears, and your dreams. The dragon counterfeits God's kingdom to compete for your worship and your allegiance. And this is what the number of the beast is all about. It's too long of a rabbit trail for us to go down. Maybe that's a cop-out, maybe it's not. We can send you an email, we'll have a conversation. But it's about getting earthly people to give their allegiance to a counterfeit empire. It's about starving out anyone who places their allegiance in anything other than the counterfeit empire.

And again, this is why the early Christians were being killed because they refused to give their allegiance to Rome over Jesus. And this still happens all across the world in countries where Christianity is not legal. Empires will put pressure on—you will not be able to participate in the system. You will not be able to buy and sell goods. If they know you are a Christian, you will not survive in that system. This happens to this day. Just like the unholy trinity is seen clearly, I think, in chapters 13 and 14, the mark of the beast is a clear parody of the Shema that we read in Deuteronomy 6. In Deuteronomy, Israel is commanded to love the Lord their God with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength, allegiance, and worship, right? And it goes on to say that they should bind his words on their hands and their forehead as a symbolic picture of a life in which one's thoughts and actions are totally shaped by covenant loyalty to God.

And then in Revelation, we have the counterfeit kingdom. The beast is marking his followers in the same two locations, presenting a counterfeit covenant in which allegiance to the beastly kingdom restates both our belief and our behavior. Scholar G.K. Beal argues that the mark is, therefore, primarily a symbol of spiritual allegiance rather than merely a physical identifier. And in many cases, the allegiance determines whether or not you have access to fair trade. This is how the enemy counterfeits and deceives. And if he cannot deceive faithful followers of Jesus, then he will put their safety and their prosperity at risk to draw them out of worship to the lamb who was slain and into the worship of the beast. So, okay, I got a clock. My normal clock is not dead and I was starting to paint, but I see another clock, so we're good. So, if the early readers were thinking about Rome, does that mean we should be thinking about America?

Don't worry, don't worry, don't worry, don't worry, don't worry. Don't worry. That was an awkward pause on purpose. Don't worry, it's fine. My answer to that would be maybe some of us. Because the counterfeit spirit will deceive and coerce us into putting our hope and our allegiance in all sorts of counterfeit kingdoms. And for some of us, that counterfeit kingdom might look like our nation in this current, present moment. I do think there is a danger for Christians in America to turn our nation into a counterfeit kingdom that they put their hope and allegiance in over the kingdom of God. I think it impacts the way we view the world. It impacts the way that we treat our brothers and sisters in Christ who are citizens of other nations. We end up having more in common.

We end up having more, we invest more time in what our neighbor down the street thinks who isn't a follower of Jesus than our brother and sister in Christ in a different country around the world. It impacts the way we view people on other sides of the political aisle, the way that we treat them. It's subtle. It's deceptive. And it clothes itself in religious language. I've literally, I wasn't even going to, I sometimes I go a little heavy on some of the political engagement. And I know that's a personal conviction for me. And so I was going to stay away from this a little bit this week out of maturity. And then literally this week I saw on social media, not posts from any of you, a post from literally a government department in our nation using religious language.

And all I, the only way I could read it is that it was targeted at Christians to get them to leave their values, the Jesus centered values at the door in order to give their allegiance to American exceptionalism instead. And it steals the worship of otherwise faithful followers of Jesus. There are some of you in the room that love Jesus, but you spend far more time listening to the news and meditating on the prosperity of our nation than you do spending time in the word and in community with other believers, imagining and meditating on the beauty of the kingdom of God. And that is a subtle attack from the enemy. And so it could be for you that. I'm not saying that it is, but it could be. But because we live in a democratic republic that places a high value on individual freedom, we live in a world that is ripe for all kinds of counterfeit kingdoms to be created by all kinds of different leaders and by you yourself.

Maybe you've created a, maybe you've created a, maybe the enemy has created a counterfeit kingdom through you that focuses your career, focuses on your career, your entertainment, your, the image of your family, the sports franchise that you put your livelihood and success in and on and on we could go. The question becomes, if you want to know who is John talking about to you when he gives these images of counterfeit kingdoms, the question you should ask yourself is, what excites my imagination? And what fuels my action? What motivates my financial decisions? Is it the kingdom of God or is it something else? And the answer to those questions will ultimately help you begin to identify where your worship and allegiance is primarily from. I think a thought experiment we could do this week is just, just imagine for a moment that you had a, a massive windfall of unexpected tasks coming to your bank account.

What are you thinking about doing with that task? This is a worship and allegiance question. And I'm scared to do that for myself. I will later, not now, because it could get ugly up here. Because I am, to quote Paul, the chief among sinners, I am not up here proclaiming a message that I had a handle on. I am preaching to myself because I am drawn away by counterfeit kingdoms day in and day out. Moment by moment, my imagination is awakened by things that are temporary and draw me away from allegiance to Jesus. The dragon counterfeits God's kingdom to compete for worship and allegiance. And imitation is the highest form of flattery and is a mission of defeat. The king goes on in chapter 14, we're going to skip one through five and come back to them.

Chapter six, or verse six of chapter 14, he says, so that, that's the unholy trinity counterfeiting the kingdom. And then John is going to give us a vision of three angels declaring three messages. It's going to wrap all of this up, hopefully. Then I saw an angel flying directly overhead with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on the earth, those who are being deceived by counterfeit kingdoms, to every nation, tribe, language, and people. An angel said with a loud voice, fear God and give him glory because the hour of his judgment has come and worship him who made the heavens and the earth and the sea and the springs of the water. An angel comes to the earthly people who are being deceived by the counterfeit kingdoms and proclaims the eternal gospel saying, give your worship and allegiance to the God who created everything, not this Sam who's counterfeiting the one who made everything.

Another angel followed saying, fallen, fallen is Babylon the great. Babylon is literally just a biblical word that means counterfeit kingdom, right? It is kingdoms influenced by, it is kingdoms influenced by temporary success and wisdom. It is the counterfeit kingdom of God in the Scriptures. So first angel says, God is coming. He will judge you. You need to place your worship and allegiance in him. You need to wake up to what's been happening all around you. The second says, this thing that you've been placing your faith and trust in, it is falling and it will fall. And another angel, a third followed, saying with a loud voice, if anyone worships the beast and its image and receives a mark on his forehead or his hands, he will drink the wine of God's wrath, pour it full strength in the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.

And he goes on here, and he goes on here as a call for endurance of the saints who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. I heard a voice from heaven saying, write this, blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors and for their deeds follow them. So here, John summarizes where all of this is headed, all of this snowballs rolling down the hill, the enemy working behind counterfeit kingdoms to try and draw out your allegiance and your worship. And it gets heavy and it gets hard to stomach. But remember, these images are meant to wake us up. They're meant to get our attention. This is the love of the Father trying to get your attention to what's actually happening in and around you.

I love how Dr. De Silva puts it. He says, throughout Revelation, John has been brutally honest about the cost of remaining faithful disciples of the Lamb. We've read the prayers of the martyrs rising up to the throne room of heaven asking God, how long will we suffer and die? The book of Revelation has been really intentional to let Christians know that your existence on earth will be hard. If you keep placing your faith and allegiance in the Lamb who was slain, sometimes you're going to end up looking like the Lamb who was slain because that's what it looks like to worship and give him your allegiance. But here, he breaks that. And instead, John understands, it says in Revelation 14, he pays greater attention to the cost of not remaining faithful. So he's going to the other side of the aisle and saying, those of you that think you're winning because you're on the team of power and success,

like, a day is coming when the wrath of God is going to be poured out. There is a gospel that is eternal. And there is a gospel that is temporary. And fallen, fallen is Babylon the great. This image is meant to wake up the inhabitants of the earth to repentance. It's meant to remind those who have been faithful to the Lamb that even though the counterfeit looks like it's winning, it will not last. Jesus says, in this world you will have trouble, but take heart, I have overcome the world. This chapter 13 and 14, it's 1 Corinthians 1. The cross looks foolish to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God to bring salvation. This is what we've read. The empires, the counterfeit kingdoms, they will look powerful and in control.

And people will look to those of us who have placed our allegiance in a land that is slain, and they will say, you fool. You're wasting all of your time, energy, and resources. Why don't you come participate in this thing? Why don't you come invest in this thing? Why don't you get the second house and the boat and the, you're missing out. And Paul says, no, the cross might look like foolishness to the residents of the earth, but that's because their hope is in temporary things. It's actually the power of God for salvation. I love this quote from Stephen Patamore. He says, talking about Christians, we look in vain for another way through. For a story which gets us to the sky without the cross. There is none. And this is the temptation for all of us

when the success of the earthly counterfeit kingdoms is happening. I love this Jesus guy. I love his kingdom. But is there another way in which I can have my cake and eat it too? Is there a way in which I can be faithful to Jesus? I can be a follower of Jesus. I can get all of the eternal blessings and promises that the Scriptures talk about and still invest in the counterfeit kingdoms of this earth. And Stephen Patamore says, there is none. And the Scripture says, there is none. Allegiance to the kingdom of God looks like following the way of Jesus, which gets us to 14 verses 1 through 5. John says, then I looked and behold, on Mount Zion stood the Lamb and with him 144,000. Again, this is just this number of complete multitude, a magnitude that cannot be counted.

Who had his name and his father's name written on their foreheads. And I heard a voice from heaven like the roar of many waters and like the sound of thunder. The voice I heard was like the sound of a harpist playing on their harps. And they were singing a new song before the throne and before the living creatures and before the elders. No one could learn the song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth. It is these who have not defiled themselves as women. So they are virgins. That's another rabbit trail. We don't have time to go down. But listen, it is these who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They have been redeemed from mankind as the firstfruits for God and the Lamb. And in their mouths no lie was found, for they are blameless.

So the question becomes, in between the counterfeit kingdom, the success, and the final judgment, John sees a beautiful image. Maybe one of my favorite images in the whole book so far. Of a faithful remnant of people from every tribe, language, nation, and tongue. This isn't an America thing. This isn't a Western thing. This is a whole world thing. People from every tribe, language, and tongue who have refused the alluring deception and the pressure of the dragon's counterfeit kingdom. The complete, innumerable number of people from every tribe, language, and tongue not being forced to wear the mark of the beast, but willfully receiving the name of God on their forehead and hands, joyfully giving him the worship that he is due. The worship that the dragon is trying to deceitfully steal. And my assumption is that this is our goal for most of us in the room.

Most of us want to find ourselves in this faithful group of people who remain faithful to the king of kings and Lord of lords, no matter what comes our way. This is our desire. This is our heart. This is why we're here. And the question becomes, how do we get there? How do we end up in this multitude from every tribe, language, nation, and tongue? And the answer is in the text. They follow the lamb wherever he goes. This might be my new favorite verse in the whole Bible. This is the image of 1 Corinthians. It is foolishness to those who are placing their hope in earthly things, but it is the power of God for salvation. Listen, this is the Christian life. This is true discipleship, not just intellectual agreement to a belief system described in a holy book.

And that is a message that pervades America. It pervades the Bible about, there are good people, kind, loving, our neighbors, who asked Jesus into their heart when they were at vacation Bible school and they were five years old. And if you asked them, they would say, I'm a Christian. They would point to the book. They would say it's good. But they do not have a personal relationship with Jesus. Their lives are not defined by following the lamb wherever he goes. This is a counterfeit kingdom. The dragon is using to get good, lovely neighbors and friends and coworkers. I've got intellectual agreement with a belief system described in a book, but because we live in America and there's no persecution, you can get away with that. And the church becomes convoluted with people who both have their faith and trust in Jesus alone and people who just think the Jesus thing is cool and it's a nice thing to do on Sunday mornings.

The invitation is total surrender and allegiance to a person that we be with, become like, and do as he did. A person that has captured our imagination and motivates our actions. A kingdom that brings the experience of heaven down to earth until he returns. A person that loved you so much that he laid down his life for you. A person so strong that the dragon thought he had won, they thought he had killed him, and he said, jokes on you, I'm raising from the dead and ascending to my eternal rightful throne. I might look like a lamb, but I sound like a lion. I have won and I will win. This is the one who is inviting us to follow him wherever he goes.

This leads to some reflection questions for us to end with this morning. And this has been heavy probably for you because it's heavy for me. I'm preaching with angst because I'm feeling the angst in my own life and in my own heart. I know how subtly I am attracted to being on the right side of temporary things. I know how subtly I'm attracted to comfort, to entertainment, to the American dream. And I'm not saying any of those things are inherently bad, but when they get our allegiance and our worship, they are. So some questions I'd love for you to meditate on this week. What counterfeit kingdoms are capturing your attention and motivating your actions?

What do you think about when you lie in bed? What consumes your conversations throughout the day? In what way is the dragon successfully deceiving or coercing you to give your allegiance to one of his many counterfeit kingdoms? What would it look like practically for you to have God's name written on your forehead and your hand?

This is not easy, and it cannot be done in isolation, but it is worth it. And that is the goal of John's images in Revelation. He wants us to see the present spiritual realities in light of the present temporary realities. He wants us to see the future spiritual realities in light of the present realities. My prayer is that we would be a people who both demonstrate and declare the good news of the eternal kingdom of our Lamb wherever we go. My prayer is that we would always remember fallen, fallen as devil on the grave.

The entire book of Revelation is crescendoing us to this truth. The consummation of the Lamb's kingdom is coming, and on that day we will all be judged based on the content of our worship. The dragon counterfeits God's kingdom to compete for our worship and allegiance, and we conquer him by following the Lamb wherever he goes.

Let's pray. Holy Spirit, I just pray for every individual in the room today. I feel as if a lot of this message was motivated towards conviction. I'm feeling conviction in my own heart and in my own life. And I pray that as we receive conviction, that we would repent, which means turn. And when we turn, that we would be reminded of the image that we have of repentance in Luke chapter 15, the prodigal son. That when we turn, what we do not see is a father shaking his fist at us, but we see a loving father running to us with his arms open. And so if this message has been heavy on some people, God, I pray that they would experience your grace in this moment.

That the enemy might sneak in and try and talk them out of the conviction that they're feeling, because we live in a world where we don't like to feel things that are uncomfortable. That may we realize that conviction is a gift from God to invite us to deeper, step-by-step following the Lamb wherever he goes.

And so God, I just pray for these people, I pray for my own heart, I pray that we'd be encouraged by the truths that we read, the images that we're meditating on. That if we've drifted from worship and allegiance to you, that we just come back with greater joy and excitement and hope.

God, may this church be a church full of people who take seriously that command, that indication to follow Jesus wherever he goes. It gets messy, it gets confusing. What would Jesus do is a really cute thing to put on a bracelet. What would Jesus do if he were me in this really messy situation gets a lot harder. And so provide for us community and wisdom through your Holy Spirit and your Scriptures so that we know what it actually looks like to follow the Lamb wherever he goes. And God, may we hold our convictions with open hands. May we not judge people who don't come to the same conclusions as us. May we be curious and ask questions and grow deeper and deeper into communion with one another and communion with you through the power of the Holy Spirit.

In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I just want to end with a quote that I came across this morning that I think is inspiring for us to leave on. And he says, I hold a fundamental belief that the greatest gift I've been given, and maybe anyone has been given, to steward on behalf of God and his kingdom is our imagination. And so I need to treat my imagination like it is a resource for bringing the kingdom of heaven to earth, and it belongs to God. So we talked a lot about imagination and worship. And I just pray this week that you think about, what is it that excites your imagination? And if there, if you've allowed counterfeit kingdom things to be the primary things going around in your imagination, that that might be something that you and the Lord deal with this week. Go on, peace, church. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
