Conditional Theologies
2021-09-06
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7B4j3sw_bDI

Hey, good morning, Canvas Church. Thanks so much for joining us for another week of Church Online. My name is Ryan. I have the privilege of being one of the pastors here at Canvas. So glad that you've joined us for week four of our series called Faith Renovation, where we've been talking about this idea of deconstruction, about people kind of beginning to question some of their previously held beliefs. And they do that for all kinds of different reasons. And maybe you're here and you're questioning your faith. Maybe you're here and you're questioning faith in general. Maybe you wouldn't consider yourself a follower of Jesus. Wherever you find yourself on this journey of faith, I think this series has been really beneficial and is going to continue to be really beneficial over this week and then next week as we wrap this series up.

Before we hop into our message, I wanted to share with you a little bit of information about some things that are happening at Canvas and ask for your help. Ask for your prayers. This area where you see Church Online every single week is our studio location. This is where everything started at Canvas. The studio location has been ours for over seven years. It's where we had our first gatherings. It's our office space. It's our live stream studio. And we're actually going to be losing this space at the end of the month. And so just wanted to inform you of that and let you know that that's coming. And so we're making some adjustments. And obviously, our mailing address is going to change. And we're going to try and navigate how we do some of our live streaming.

We've got a lot of different options and ideas. But I really feel like after seven years of us being here and our landlord taking such good care of us, we're so thankful for Mr. Good and all that he's done for our church, really felt like us being asked to leave was an opportunity of kind of God kind of pushing us out of our comfort zone. And as a church, we've always tried to be really intentional with our resources. We've tried to be really generous in our community. We've intentionally decided to, you've heard Brandon talk a couple years back, we actually decided to take our savings account that was going towards the possibility of a future building and put that towards the lady shelter at the Winchester Rescue Mission because there was a need in our community.

And so we really want to continue to think that way as we're intentionally thinking about the future of our church without this space, but feel like maybe it's an opportunity for us to think about maybe a more permanent space. And so we're doing that as a staff and as a leadership team. I'd love to invite you to just pray, ask God for wisdom, ask God for provision, ask God that he might open up doors that we're not even aware of. And so excited about what that might look like in the future. Just wanted to let you know what's going on. So live stream starting in October is probably going to look a little bit different, but we're going to work very hard and be very intentional to make sure that the online service is as engaging as possible.

Obviously with COVID, we know a lot of you can't even come out. Some of you have found our church from different states and different locations. We're so glad you're here. We're going to keep working hard to make this service as engaging as possible. So I just wanted to let you know that. Ask if you would join us in prayer. I'm actually going to pray right now, and then we'll kind of get more into our message for this morning. Father, we're so thankful for everyone that is on this service, everyone that calls Canvas their church, and even people that you've brought here for the first time that are just checking out church and faith and Jesus for the first time. Pray that God, everything that we say and do would be directed by you, that you'd give us wisdom to hear from you

and wisdom to understand what is next for our church. Pray for this incredible provision for our church in this next season. And God, pray for this message. Pray that your Holy Spirit would be present and active in the lives of everyone that's listening to this message. I pray that we would hear specifically from you this morning for your glory and our good. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, like I said at the beginning, this is our fourth week of this series on deconstruction. And last week, Pastor Brandon covered the story of Nicodemus coming to Jesus at night with questions about how to reconcile his religion, this religious system that he'd grown up in his entire life, the system that he gave his life to, this system that he was kind of working in.

It was his profession and the God that he grew up hearing about and learning about and hearing stories about. He was trying to reconcile not only the stories he'd heard about God, but seeing God in the flesh in front of him, being able to interact and have conversations with God in the flesh. And he was trying to reconcile his religion and what he knew to be true about God. And that's kind of been the overarching application as we've talked about this idea of deconstruction and faith renovation. As we've said, people that are both kind of rebelling against God and people who are entrenched in a religious system both need to tear down some of their previously held beliefs in order to better understand the heart of the Father. I think that's the beautiful thing about Canvas

is we have people on all different sides of the spectrum. We have people that are just now coming to church to ask questions about Jesus. We have people that are kind of have been running away from God for a long time. We have people who have grown up in the church and been in church their whole lives. And I think it's important for all of us to find common ground and unity as we seek to better understand the heart of the Father. That's the goal of this entire series, that we would better understand the heart of the Father. So we said that from the outset, and that's going to continue to be our goal this morning. If you have your Bibles, I'd love to have you turn to Genesis chapter 3. We're going to be in Genesis chapter 3 and 4,

and then we'll hop over to Matthew 4 at the end. As you're turning, I was really struggling with how to introduce this message, how to get into our topic for this morning. And this morning I was listening to, or earlier this week I was listening to a podcast, and he made this statement. He said that oftentimes the goal of science is to disprove science. And so science is built on theories. It's built on hypothesis. It's built on these conditional statements where scientists start out with a hypothesis, and they say if this reacts this way, then this must be true, right? There's these conditional statements that they're trying to prove based on theories they have. And then once a theory is proven, it's held as the proven theory until another scientist comes along and disproves that theory.

So we have these conditional if-then statements. The biggest one that I can think of that growing up affected me in my childhood is Pluto, right? Like a lot of you grew up being taught that Pluto was a planet, and then other scientists with other information came along and realized maybe Pluto is not a planet. And then more scientists came along with more information, and now I think it might be a planet again. I tried to find the answer on the internet this week and really couldn't figure out if it is or is not a planet. But really, we have a lot of these conditional statements in our life, right? If this happens, then this will happen. If I do this, then this will happen. And I came up with a couple of examples that I think might help us hop into this.

So here's one. If I go to work and I do a good job, then I will get paid, right? That's a conditional statement that a lot of us base our life on. If I go to work, I do a good job, I'll get a paycheck. How about this one? If I buy a Peloton, I will definitely use it enough to justify the expense. If I make this purchase, I'm definitely going to use it enough to make it worth my purchase price, right? Some of us have Pelotons, and we use it plenty. Some of us have Pelotons, and it is just a very expensive closet that we put our coats on. If I go to college, I'll get a good job, right? That's a conditional statement that used to be really true, and nowadays, maybe not so much.

A lot of you probably have lots of student debt, and your college degree is just a piece of paper that you could use as a napkin, because there are no jobs, right? If I have kids, they'll get older, and they'll be able to help me with chores. Some of you have kids, and you thought, man, once they get older, they'll mow the lawn, they'll do the dishes. But I've talked to some of you teenagers, and that's not how it works. So our life is built on these conditional statements, right? We make decisions based on what we think the outcomes will be. If X happens, then Y will happen. And I think if we're honest with ourselves, when it comes to our faith and our religion and our beliefs about God and the Bible, I think sometimes we begin to believe

these false conditional statements about God and the Bible and religion, and we build our faith, and we build our religion on what I would like to call conditional theologies, false conditional theologies. If I do X, then Y will happen. And when the false equation fails us, we blame God. We get mad at God because it didn't work out the way that we thought it was going to work out. I think a big contributing factor to many of us deconstructing parts of our faith is that we've bought into a false conditional theology. We believe that if I do this, if I think this way, if I chase after this, then this will be the outcome. And then when that outcome doesn't work out, we get mad at God because we blame Him for not holding up His end of the deal.

And so as we jump into our text in Genesis 3 and Genesis 4 this morning, I want to unpack the conditional theology of both the rebellious and the religious. I think there's these conditional statements that the people who are kind of walking away from the faith, who are rebelling against God, I think they're believing a specific lie, a specific conditional theology that isn't true. And on the other side of the coin, I think there's people here that are entrenched in a religious system, and they're basing their life on a conditional theology of religion that also isn't true. I want to kind of unpack those and help us understand how I think they're impacting some of our deconstruction process. So Genesis chapter 3, starting in verse 1, a lot of us are going to be familiar with this passage.

Let's check it out. It says, The serpent was the shrewdest of all the wild animals the Lord God had made. One day he asked the woman, Did God really say to you that you must not eat the fruit from any of the trees in the garden? Eve said, Of course we may eat from the fruit of the trees in the garden. The woman replied, It's only the fruit from the tree in the middle of the garden that we are not allowed to eat. God said, We must not eat it or even touch it. If we do, we will die. The enemy said, You won't die. God knows that your eyes will be opened as soon as you eat it, and you will be like God, knowing both good and evil. Verse 6, The woman was convinced.

She saw that the tree was beautiful and that its fruit looked delicious, and she wanted the wisdom it would give her. So she took some fruit and she ate it. Then she gave to her husband who was with her, and he ate it too. At that moment, their eyes were opened, and they suddenly felt shame at their nakedness, so they sewed fig leaves together to cover themselves. So we have Adam and Eve in the garden, literally living what I would say is the ideal Christian life. They're in paradise. They're in the Garden of Eden with everything that they could ever imagine, with a perfect fellowship between them and God, that God would literally meet them and walk with them. They were obeying all of the laws that God had commanded them because God literally only commanded them one law.

They had it so good, right? They were living in right fellowship with God. They were naked and together in paradise. Sounds like a pretty good life. And this is where they find themselves, in right relationship with God, in right relationship with one another, literally in what we would probably call paradise. And then temptation, the enemy, temptation steps in and offers them a conditional theology for the rebellious heart. See, where they find themselves is in right relationship with God, in fellowship with God. Everything is as it should be. And then temptation comes in and says, what if you're missing out on something? What if God's holding something back from you? What if there's a better life for you to live? I know this life seems really great. You've got your spouse and you're both naked and you're in the Garden of Eden

and everything's great and you have a perfect relationship with God. But what if God's holding something back from you? See, if you eat this fruit, you will become like God. You'll have the one thing that you don't have. God's holding back something from you. And I'm telling you, there's this different theology that you can believe. That if you would just participate in these things that look good, taste good, smell good, feel good, then you'll be happy and you'll be satisfied. And after one temptation from the enemy, Eve's rebellious heart was convinced. How was she convinced? Look in verse six. It says the woman was convinced she saw that the tree was beautiful and its fruit looked delicious and she wanted the wisdom that it would give her. See, I think this is the conditional theology

of the rebellious heart. The conditional theology of the rebellious heart says, if it looks good, tastes good, sounds good, feels good, then it must be good for me to pursue and or encourage others to pursue without boundaries or limitations. This is the conditional theology of the rebellious heart. If it looks good, if it feels good, if it makes me feel good, then I'm going to pursue it and nobody can tell me anything other than that. I don't care what God says. I care what I see. And man, I see this so much in our culture today. There's so much of this conditional theology that's wrapped around what I think and what I feel and I'm going to let my feelings dictate what I want to do and ultimately I'm going to do whatever it is

that I want to do as long as it looks good, tastes good, smells good, sounds good, feels good. I'm going to do it without boundaries and without limitations. And not only am I going to do it, but I'm going to encourage other people to do it as well. And what I missed growing up in this passage was that the tree of the knowledge of good and evil was actually a really good thing. I grew up, I think, just naturally reading because God told them not to eat of it, that it must have been a bad thing, but we know from the Scriptures that it's actually a good and beautiful thing. Eve saw it. She saw the fruit and looked delicious. The tree was beautiful. The tree was a good thing. It was just good within the boundaries and context

that God had placed it. See, the tree served an important purpose. It was placed there to give Adam and Eve the opportunity to take God at His word. The tree was good and beautiful, but it was only good within the context that God created it to be. And I think sometimes in our culture today, one of the reasons we see people walking away from their faith is they see something that looks good, that makes them feel good, that they want to pursue. And even though God might say something different about it, they're like, well, it's the eye test, right? It's like, I don't care what God says. Maybe I'm misinterpreting what God says. Let's go back to the text and let's study it again. And hopefully I can come out with another understanding of the text.

And a lot of this, guys, if I'm being honest, I see a lot of, this isn't in my notes, this is extra. I see a lot of deconstruction happening where people are going back to the Bible and asking questions about their faith, motivated by an emotion and a desire that they already have. And so they're not actually letting the text be the ultimate authority for their life, like we talked about a couple weeks ago. They come to the text with an answer that they already want. They say, I have this question. I have what I want the answer to be. And guys, the Bible's big enough that if you go to it with the outcome that you already want, you can really make it say what you want it to say. And I think the rebellious heart says,

I see this thing, I want it, and I'm going to make God say that it's OK. Man, we live in a culture that regularly preaches this to us. If it looks good, tastes good, smells good, sounds good, feels good, then it must be good. Pursue it, chase after it. Live in light of your desires. Do what you want to do. Do what makes you feel good. So I wanted to get really practical with this message. And so as we walk through each of these conditional theologies, I wanted to talk about four categories that I see this play out. And I think we'll have a good time talking about these things. Because we're going to talk about sex, money, food, and entertainment. Sex, money, food, entertainment. These are all things that we love to talk about, right?

So here's what I see happening in the conditional theology of the rebellious heart. That sex is a good thing. And so we see that. We look at that. We say, if sex is good, then I must be able to enjoy it and participate in whatever way I want. But the reality is sex is good. It's just not good outside of the covenant of marriage. And it's not a good God inside of the covenant of marriage. And then we have money, right? Money is a good thing. But the love of money is the root of all evil. Food is a good thing. Beer is a good thing. Buffalo trace whiskey is good. But not if we overindulge in it. Not if we chase after it as if it's the thing to give us satisfaction. Entertainment is good. But not when we let the pursuit of it take over our lives.

Recently, I follow a bunch of people that are proponents of deconstruction. It's helped me think about, and when I say proponents of deconstruction, that sounds bad, right? Because we've said from this series that we are proponents of a healthy deconstruction process. Because really, at the heart of deconstruction, you're just asking questions to solidify what you believe about your faith. And so if deconstruction leads to renovation, then that's an excellent thing. But we're fearful of deconstruction that leads people away from the faith. And I follow a bunch of ex-evangelicals, is what they call themselves. They've walked away from the church, and they're encouraging other people to do the same. And I saw this one post that was talking about the fact that God doesn't care about sex before marriage. You can do whatever you want in whatever ways you want.

God doesn't care. He only cares about sex after you're married. So once you're married, then you should be monogamous. But before marriage, you can do whatever you want to do. It's this if-then statement. Because sex is good, it looks good, tastes good, smells good, feels good, right? Because it's this good gift from God, then I must be able to pursue it without boundaries or limitations. And this is literally, we think this is a new problem. But it's the same problem that they were facing in the first and second century churches. It's called Gnosticism. It's called, God doesn't care about our bodies. He only cares about our hearts. So we can do whatever we want in this physical body, and He doesn't care. As long as we have pure hearts and everything else is going to be okay.

But here's the problem, that doesn't work. And not only does that not work, but the thing that I love so much about God's Word is that it's this ancient text that ultimately science almost always backs up. See, science often validates God's declared design. As I was reading and studying for this message, I found out about this chemical in the brain called vasopressin. The brain releases vasopressin, which is a bonding chemical whenever two people have sex. And the purpose of this chemical is that after, or the purpose of this chemical is, it's a bonding chemical. It's like, it's telling the brain that when sex happens, there should be this bond that happens between this. And really the goal is that the two would become one, that they would form a family, and that they would raise this child in a safe and healthy environment.

It makes sense from an evolutionary perspective too, right? Like people should come together in family units and protect their children. But here's what happens. After multiple partners, the chemical begins to no longer be effective. And so it's funny because when I grew up, secular people outside of the Bible that didn't care about faith, that didn't care about Jesus, they used to use science as their total authority. Like science was truth, and we did what science said. But what I'm seeing nowadays is that the rebellious heart is only using science when it backs up their point. And so we've got these people who would say they're outside of the faith. They don't care what God has to say, so they shouldn't care what science has to say. And they don't care what science has to say either.

Why? Because sex tastes good, smells good, feels good, looks good, right? Because it's this thing that's good. And so I want to pursue it, and I don't want anybody to tell me anything else. It feels good, so it can't be wrong. I don't care about what religion says about it. I don't care about what science says about it. I care about what my feelings say about it. I'm going to live my truth. Wow. Stepping on some toes, right? There is an English, even, an evangelist named John Guest. And I came across this quote this week, too. I thought it was helpful and impactful. He came to America to preach the gospel, and he went into kind of like a gift shop, and he saw flags that said, don't tread on me, and he saw signs that said, taxation without

representation is theft. And he kind of got a picture of the American mindset, and he said this. He said, how can I possibly preach the gospel of the kingdom of God to a people who have a profound aversion to the sovereign? He was saying, how can I preach the kingdom of a God who declares himself to be king and ruler and have all authority over all creation? How can I preach that message to these people who don't want anybody to have any authority over them? And I think that's ultimately at the heart of this conditional theology of the rebellious heart. I don't want anybody to tell me what to do. I want to decide for myself what feels good, what looks good, what smells good, what tastes good, and I want to pursue it. And I think this is the root cause of a lot of deconstruction, is we say, well, that thing

doesn't seem like it's hurting anybody. It seems good, feels good, tastes good, smells good. So let's pursue it, and let's encourage other people to pursue it. So this morning, I just want to ask us to seriously consider where we might be buying into this false theology. That just because sometimes something feels good, that doesn't mean that God ordained it for us to pursue without limits or boundaries. God's allowed, God's allowed to give us boundaries around the things that he created. He's allowed to give us structure around the gifts that he's given us. So where are we pursuing that in our own life? And where are we encouraging other people to do it? Maybe we're going against what we think Scripture says, because we don't want to hurt anybody's feelings. We want them to be able to pursue what they think is best for their life.

We want them to live their truth. Guys, as a people who believe that following Jesus is a better way to live, encouraging people to let them live their truth, I don't think it's ultimately going to lead to their abundant life. And so I just want to challenge us. Let's think about that. So we see Adam and Eve, they buy into this conditional theology of rebellion. Ultimately, what they say is, I don't care what God says. I care what I see. If it looks good, I'm going to pursue it. And then in the next chapter over, we see their kids, and one of their kids swings the pendulum pretty hard from rebellion to religion. Let's look in Genesis chapter 4, starting in verse 1. It says, Now Adam had sexual relations with his wife Eve, and she became pregnant.

When she gave birth to Cain, she said, With the Lord's help, I have produced a man. Later, she gave birth to his brother and named him Abel. When they grew up, Abel became a shepherd while Cain cultivated the ground. When it was time for the harvest, Cain presented some of his crops as a gift to the Lord. Abel also brought a gift, the best of the firstborn lambs from his flock. The Lord accepted Abel and his gift, but he did not accept Cain and his gift. This made Cain very angry, and he looked dejected. Why are you so angry, the Lord asked Cain. Why do you look so dejected? You will be accepted if you do what is right. But if you refuse to do what is right, then watch out, for sin is crouching at the door,

eager to control you. But you must subdue it and be its master. One day, Cain suggested to his brother, Let's go out in the fields. And while they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother, Abel, and killed him. So we've got Adam and Eve who buy into this conditional theology of rebellion. If it looks good, tastes good, smells good, feels good, it must be good, and I can pursue it without boundaries or limitations. And then, as often happens, their son, the next generation, swings the pendulum over, and he sees that that didn't work, right? He sees the effects of the rebellion of his parents. He sees that that did not lead to life, that it ultimately led them to being kicked out of the garden, and this separation between them and God. And he swings the pendulum back to religion.

I know there's a lot happening in Genesis chapter 4 that we could dive into, but I really just want to focus on what I think is this conditional theology that Abel's buying into. He swung the pendulum from the rebellious theology, and now the rebellious theology says, again, it feels good, so I'm going to pursue it, and then I'll be blessed. And Cain says, that didn't work, and so now I'm going to bring certain things to God, and he's going to bless me for that. So Cain creates this religion. He says, I'm going to bring God the fruits of my harvest. I'm going to give him these gifts, these plants that I have worked hard to grow and create. And then because I'm thinking about God, I'm creating these gifts and this worship that I'm going to give him, then God's going to bless me.

And so I believe Cain was creating a conditional system where he could bring to God what was convenient for him. Again, he's a farmer, and he brings fruits and produce to God. It's an easy thing for him to do. He creates a system where he can bring what's convenient for him and turn it over to God. And in return, he expects that God will bless him. This is the conditional theology that the rebellious, or that the religious heart creates. We create rules that are easy for us to follow and hard for other people to follow. And then we expect God to bless us and curse them. We expect God to bless us for obeying these rules that he never asked us to obey. We created this system, and we want him to bless us, and we want him to curse other people for

not obeying these rules that he never commanded to begin with. I think many of us have created a religious system that's somewhat easy and convenient for us to follow. And we're going to continue to follow it as long as it works out, as long as God gives us in response what we think we deserve. But what happens the moment when God stops giving us what we think we want? Cain thought God was going to bless him for this offering, and instead, God says, I never asked you for that. I don't want that. That's not what I want from you. And Cain goes on a killing spree. He kills his brother because he didn't get from God what he thought he should get. He created this offering, this system. I'm going to bring God these things, and in return, God's going to bless me.

God never created that system. That was a system that Cain created. And we do this. We make up our own religion, and we expect God to give us in return what we think we deserve. This is the conditional heart of the religious heart. So let's unpack how that works out in these four categories we were talking about earlier. The religious heart says about sex, I'll be a virgin until marriage, and then God will give me a perfect marriage and a perfect sex life inside my marriage. We create this religious system. We expect God to give us something in return. Money, I'll give God 10% of my money, and he will bless me financially. Food, I won't drink alcohol, and God will bless me with a long and healthy life. Entertainment, I'm going to make sure that my family only consumes Christian content,

and God will bless me with a perfect family. But what happens when this doesn't work out? Guys, this is not a system that God promised. And we're pushing this system on people. We're preaching this message to people. I grew up in what evangelical people my age would call the I-kiss-dating-goodbye generation. Because there was this book and conference and all of this idea about getting rid of dating, no kissing, no holding hands, no dating, no anything until marriage. You're going to do this biblical courtship, and then you'll get married. And all in one day, all of a sudden, you'll go from not having any sex to having the best sex of your life. And we were taught that that's what God promised us. And guys, guess what happened? It didn't work out, right? Some of us, God called us to a season of singleness, and we're doing everything that we thought we should be doing,

and God's not giving up His end of the bargain. Some of us, we did what we thought we were supposed to do, and then sex didn't work out as well as we thought it was going to because we never talked about it. We were never taught about it in a good light. And so it became this dark secret. Some of us, we did the right thing. And then maybe we found out later in our marriage that our spouse was actually addicted to pornography because they had all of this built-up frustration and tension about what He's being taught in church about sexuality. And so we create this religion, and then we don't get the results that we thought God was going to give us because God never promised that to begin with. It's a system that we created.

It's a conditional statement that we put on God that He never asked for us. Money, what happens if you tithe faithfully? You lose your job. You can't provide for your family the way that you thought you would be able to. What happens when you don't drink, you don't smoke, you don't do any of those bad things, and then you get the cancer diagnosis? Meanwhile, your neighbor down the street who smokes a pack a day and gets drunk every night is living a healthy and happy life. What happens to your heart when you believe a false theology? You get angry, and you get mad, and you blame God, and you walk away from your faith because you bought a religion that God never sold you. Some preacher might have sold it to you. Some church might have sold it to you, but it wasn't God's vision for your life.

And I see so many people that are walking away from the church, and I get it. They're hurt because some preacher taught them something that isn't true, handed them a conditional religious theology that was never from God. Entertainment. We're going to only consume Christian content. But then what happens when you raise your kids up in what you think is the right way, and they end up walking away from the faith? I had a professor in college that said, the Bible verse that says, you reap what you sow, that that Bible verse is a promise that if you are godly, your kids will be godly. He said it was 100% guarantee, and now his son has walked away from the church. And so what happens when we buy this life, when a preacher tells us that if you're a godly person,

and if you raise your family around godly entertainment, that they will become godly. And then what happens when your kids walk away from the faith? Again, our hearts are broken. We're angry. We lash out. And that's what Cain does. He created this system. He brought these offerings to God, and he thought, in turn, God would bless him. And then when God wasn't happy with his offerings or his blessings, they got furious. He got furious, and he ended up killing his brother. So the problem with these religious conditional theology is that we put our trust in ideas and concepts that God never asked us to trust in. And then when God doesn't hold up his end of the deal that he never agreed upon, we go on a killing spree. So if the sex thing didn't work out the way that we thought it would,

we go and we sell ourselves short to a cheap pornography addiction. When the financial stuff didn't work out the way that we thought it should, we go into crazy amounts of credit card debt. We buy whatever we want to make ourselves feel better. When the health thing doesn't work out, we turn to gluttony and to drunkenness. When the entertainment thing doesn't work out, we pursue laziness. We get so mad at God because we put this religious system on him that he never asked us to do. We give him this conditional theology. If I bring these things to you, then you give me these things back. And God doesn't play by those rules because that's not the gospel. And this often leads to us religious people swinging the pendulum back towards rebellion. And it's a pendulum that goes back and forth.

People who grew up in secular homes, their childhoods were ruined because their parents were alcoholics and substance abusers. They find hope and healing in the church. And then they turn to religion. And they try and raise their kids in a religious home. And their kids follow all the rules. And then things don't work out the way that they thought it would. And they swing the pendulum back to rebellion. And this happens over and over again. And I think it's a huge contributing factor to so many people deconstructing their faith. Because they've bought the lie of these two false conditional theologies. They've bought the lie that if it looks good, tastes good, smells good, feels good, they should be able to pursue it without boundary or limit. Or they've bought the lie that I'm going to bring God these offerings and he's going to bless me in return.

And neither of those things are the true gospel. Rebellion says I can become God by deciding for myself what is good and bad based on my feelings, what I think, what I see. I don't care what God says. I care what I see. And religion says I can control God by creating a reward system that he has to honor. But what if there's another way? I'm going to wrap up by turning to Matthew chapter 4. Matthew chapter 4, we see Jesus, not in a garden, but in a desert. And the same enemy that came to Adam and Eve and offered them a conditional theology comes to Jesus and offers him a conditional theology. In verse 8, Satan's offered Jesus a couple of different things and it comes to a head at verse 8. It says, next, the devil took Jesus to the peak of a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.

I will give it all to you, he said, if you will kneel down and worship me. Satan says, the enemy says, I'll give you everything. You can have all the kingdoms of the world. All you have to do is bow down and worship me. Jesus says, get out of here, Satan. For the Scripture says, you must worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Then the devil went away and the angels came and took care of Jesus. See, we have a very real enemy that regularly offers us false conditional theologies. He tries to convince the rebellious heart that they can control God by creating their own rules and that if they follow those rules, God will bless them. Or he offers the rebellious heart. Just chase after what you feel. Pursue the things that look good, taste good, smell good, without boundary or limitation.

And that will lead to a satisfied life. And Jesus was faced with the same temptation. Adam and Eve had a perfect opportunity to say no to this temptation. They were in a garden with everything that they could ever want. Jesus, after 40 days of being in the wilderness and fasting, has offered the same thing. You can have it all. All you have to do is bow down and worship me. Say yes to this temptation and receive temporary blessing. But if you do, you'll be separated from your father. Or take God at his word and receive eternal reward. And Jesus succeeds where Adam and Eve fail. Jesus succeeds where all of us have failed. He chooses to be obedient to the one true command. You must worship the Lord your God and serve him only. See, the message of the gospel of Jesus, it is a conditional message.

But it's not the condition of rebellion or the condition of religion. It's based on the condition of faith and submission to Jesus. The gospel is conditional in that Jesus succeeds in every way that we have failed. And he offers his success freely to us by us accepting it by faith. By obeying this command to worship the Lord our God and to serve him only. The entire faith renovation process comes down to our willingness to obey this one command. Are we willing to worship the Lord our God and serve him only? All of it comes down to that. This is the heart of the father. We've said the whole goal of the deconstruction process is to get us back to the heart of the father. The heart of the father is that we would worship the Lord our God and serve him only.

If we start our deconstruction process here with this command, and then we ask questions about our faith, we ask questions about the religion that we've been handed, we ask questions about the things that look good, taste good, smell good, how should we pursue them? If we do that all under the banner of we're going to worship the Lord our God and serve him only, I promise that we might come to different conclusions about secondary issues, but if we're willing to unite around this command, that we're going to worship God and serve him only, I promise we can find unity around that. So I want to end by having us think through what conditional theology are we most inclined to this morning? Are you most inclined to the rebellious theology? You don't want to miss out.

You see things that look good, taste good, smell good, feel good, and you want to pursue it, or you at least want other people to be able to pursue it. Or maybe you're trusting in some man-made religious system. Maybe it's been handed to you. Maybe you accepted it because you thought it was the gospel, and you thought if you did these things the right way, then God would bless you. Or maybe you're like me, and I feel like I have swung the pendulum a few times in my life. I feel like sometimes I am in a rebellious state, and I just believe, you know what? God, I love you. I want to obey you, but this thing looks good. This thing tastes good. This thing smells good. This thing feels good. I want to pursue it for a while and see what happens.

And it always leaves me empty. And what happens oftentimes when I'm in rebellion to God is I swing the pendulum and I go to religion. Rather than submitting to his lordship and coming back to the center and saying, God, you are Lord. I want to worship you and serve you only. I tend to feel bad about my rebellion and go towards religion. I don't know where you're at this morning, but my challenge for all of us is that we would learn to put to death our conditional theologies, that we would learn to trust the way of Jesus, that we would worship the Lord our God and serve him only, even if it doesn't lead to some things that we want it to lead to. See, here's the deal. Jesus promises that if we'll do this, he promises what he calls abundant life.

But abundant life doesn't always mean earthly blessings. It doesn't mean that everything goes well. It doesn't mean that we get everything that we want to get or that our life ends up looking the way that it wants to end up looking. But it means that our life is fulfilled and satisfied because we're living for eternal purposes. We're going to reap eternal benefits. So let's get real practical. I know I'm over time. Let's get real practical about what this looks like with those four categories. If we're worshiping the Lord God and serving him only, sex, we view it as a gift from God, and we will enjoy it within the parameters that he has defined, and we will not worship it. Sex is not a God. It's a gift. Money. Everything that I have is a gift from God, and I will use everything I have to serve the least of these

and build God's kingdom, not our own. James says true religion is taking care of the widow and the orphan. We're going to use everything we have to serve the least of these to build God's kingdom. Food. I will use food to fuel my body in a healthy way, and my dinner table to invest in relationships with people for the glory of God. I'm going to use food to bring people around to build relationships that I can point people to Jesus and build his kingdom entertainment. I will enjoy the good gift from God in their proper context, and I will use them as an opportunity to worship him. Let's be a people who reject the false conditions of rebellion and religion, and let's be a people who intentionally learn to take God at his word no matter where it leads us,

because we truly believe that following Jesus is a better way. Let's pray. Father, I know we covered a lot today. I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would take all of the information that we communicated this morning and that you would speak directly to each individual what we need to hear. Challenge us, convict us, encourage us, and point us back to you. And I pray that as people wrestle with this process of deconstruction and the questions that they have, that we would create a community at Canvas where it's a safe and healthy place for people to wrestle with questions, for people to be angry about the religion that they bought, that they were sold from some preacher, some pastor, some church, that they'd be allowed to be angry about those things, and that they would mourn those things and find hope and healing in Jesus,

and that those who are chasing after what their heart desires and what they feel looks good, tastes good, smells good, I pray that they would be able to realize that they bought a lie that will never satisfy them. It might feel good in the moment, but it will not satisfy them. And I pray that they would find hope and healing in this command to love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength. To worship the Lord your God and serve Him only. I pray all of us in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you for checking out Canvas today. Canvas is a church of real people with real lives simply learning to follow Jesus. And we truly hope that you were encouraged by today's message. My name is Michelle Meeks, and I'm the children's pastor here at Canvas.

If you're new to Canvas or you'd like to get more connected, we have several ways that you can do so. You can go to our website at canvaswinchester.org, or you can download our app if you'd like notifications about what is going on daily and weekly here at Canvas by searching Canvas Church Winchester in your app store. We also have social media pages and a YouTube channel, which will house all of the videos that you see here today, as well as my personal favorite Canvas Kids videos. If you would like to give financially to Canvas, you can do so at going to canvaswinchester.org backslash give. That's all I have for you. I hope you have a great rest of your day.
