Baptism: A Fresh Perspective
2021-11-15
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5lZJd5pUAg8

Amen. I believe that this morning. A reading from Acts. As for Philip, an angel of the Lord said to him, Go south down the desert road that runs from Jerusalem to Gaza. So he started out and he met the treasurer of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under the Kandig, the queen of Ethiopia. The eunuch had gone to Jerusalem to worship, and he was now returning. Seated in his carriage, he was reading aloud from the book of the prophet Isaiah. The Holy Spirit said to Philip, Go over and walk along beside the carriage. Philip ran over and heard the man reading from the prophet Isaiah. Philip asked, Do you understand what you're reading? The man replied, How can I, unless someone instructs me? And he urged Philip to come into the carriage and sit with him.

The passage of Scripture he had been reading was this. He was led like a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb is silent before the shearers, he did not open his mouth. He was humiliated and received no justice. Who can speak of his descendants? For his life was taken from the earth. The eunuch asked Philip, Tell me, was the prophet talking about himself or someone else? So beginning with the same Scripture, Philip told him the good news about Jesus. As they rode along, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, Look, there's some water. Why can't I be baptized? He ordered the carriage to stop, and they went down into the water, and Philip baptized him. When they came up out of the water, the spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away. The eunuch never saw him again, but went on, his way rejoicing.

You guys can have a seat. Thanks so much again for joining us this morning. If you didn't catch the announcements on your way, my name is Ryan, and I have the privilege of being one of the pastors here. And last week, we had a really unique time of self-reflection and examination, of kind of soul reflection, soul examination. If you weren't here, it was special. It was emotional. It was unique. I actually shed some tears with some of you last week. It was heavy, but it was good. And I think there's no better way to fulfill Paul's, the other half of Paul's command, to weep with those who weep, and to rejoice with those who rejoice, than to follow up last week's kind of emotional soul reflection that might have led some of us to shed some tears with

the time of joy. And I think it's a time of rejoicing this morning in baptism, the time of celebrating new faith in Jesus. And I think the family of God really was designed to teach us, to give us a healthy perspective, a well-rounded perspective on the realities of life. Because the reality is, all of us know, if we've lived long enough, that we have peaks and valleys. We have mountaintops, and we find ourselves in valleys. And I think the family of God and us coming together on a weekly basis to spend time with one another, to encourage one another, to hear Scriptures and to worship reminds us of this well-rounded perspective of life. The reality is, there's some of you in this room that are really healthy, and some of you that are sick. There's people at home watching that are sick.

There's some of you that have been to funerals in the last few weeks, while others have celebrated the birth of new babies. There's some of you that are walking through the difficulty of broken relationships, while others have celebrated anniversaries and marriages recently. See, all throughout the body of Christ, we have people all over that spectrum of mountaintops and valleys. And I really just can't think of a better way to follow up last week's time of soul reflection and weeping than to rejoice with those who are rejoicing this morning as we celebrate baptism. So that's kind of where we're going to head this morning. I'm super excited about it. Let me pray, and then we'll kind of hop into that text that Shauna read for us a minute ago. Father, we're so thankful that you have given us the family of God to remind us of your faithfulness and your goodness,

both when we find ourselves on the mountaintop and when we find ourselves in the valley and when we find ourselves everywhere in between. You are faithful. You are good. You are present and active in our life. And you have brought this family of God around us. Some of us are in here with little to no physical family left. But you've given us the church as a spiritual family, a spiritual heritage that we can rally around one another and we can celebrate when others are celebrating and we can mourn when others are mourning. So I'm so glad that you've given us the church this morning. I pray for each of us as we hear from your word this morning, as we worship, as we spend time in the lobby and fellowship, I pray that every element of this experience today would be used by your Holy Spirit to draw us to yourself,

to point us to what you want us to hear, to encourage us to do what you want us to do. God, I pray that this message on baptism would be a reminder for all of us of what our responsibility is as followers of Jesus. And I pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. So if you have your Bibles, you can turn to Acts chapter 8. We're going to work through that story that Shauna read just a minute ago. And as you're turning there, I'd love to kind of do a thought exercise with us this morning. How many of you have ever found yourself staring at something, a simple puzzle or a simple math problem where you keep going through it in your head and maybe you keep getting the wrong answer and it shouldn't be that difficult?

Maybe one of those Facebook puzzles where, have you ever seen the ones where it's like a full screen of eights and it's like find the one S in the eight and you're like staring at it for like ten minutes and you're like, huh, is there actually an S in this puzzle or is the person like pranking me? Have you ever gotten stuck like just staring at something that shouldn't be that complicated but ultimately ends up kind of messing with your brain? Or I remember a few years ago, there was this dress that was very famous on social media. I think I have a picture of it. Do you guys remember this dress? Anybody remember the fights that they got in their friends' list over it? Is this dress blue and black or is it white and gold?

If you see white and gold, raise your hands. Those of you at home, we got probably 20% of the room says white and gold. What about blue and black? A majority of the room sees blue and black. What really messes with you is when it starts flip-flopping, when it's white and gold and then blue and black while you're looking at it at the same time. But the reason I bring this up is because sometimes, sometimes we get stuck in a perspective. We get stuck looking at something for so long or seeing something the same way for so long that it's impossible for us to really step back and to look at something with a different perspective. Sometimes if we're not careful, we're stubborn people and we get stuck focused on one perspective without really having kind of a holistic perspective.

We talk about this with communion a lot, right? We take communion almost every single week here at Canvas. And so sometimes it's easy for us to just get in the rhythm or the routine of doing this thing that God commanded us to do without really understanding the beauty and significance of it. And I think the same can be true of baptism. We can just get so used to seeing it. For those of us that are insiders in the room, those of us that grew up in church our whole lives, we've seen hundreds of baptisms our entire life. We've seen this over and over again. And if we're not careful, it can just become normal, routine, just something that we do, a tradition that we participate in because God told us to and it's cool and fun and we clap.

But if we're not careful, we just get stuck looking at it that way. Or maybe you're an outsider. Maybe you didn't grow up in the church. You're kind of just kicking the tires on this Christianity thing, trying to figure out what the claims of Jesus really are all about. And when you think about somebody getting in a lukewarm bath tank in front of a bunch of people and going underwater, you might look at that. You might have a perspective like that's weird. That's a ritualistic religious thing. And you might not understand it. Well, wherever you find yourself on that spectrum of perspective about baptism, I think it's really good before we celebrate people going public in baptism to kind of take a step back, to look at baptism with a fresh perspective. And I don't think there's any better story in Scripture to take a fresh look at baptism

than the story of Philip baptizing the eunuch. Like we have the process of baptism from beginning to end all in just a few verses here in Acts. So we're going to just work through that and really look at a fresh perspective on baptism. My hope is by the end of this that if you're an insider, you've been in church your whole life, you've seen a hundred different baptisms. I hope that before we get to the point where we're going to baptize some people at the end of service, that you're reminded of the beauty and the significance of baptism and that you should be a part of baptisms as a believer. And if you're an outsider and you're new to this whole Christianity thing, I hope this gives you a pretty good perspective about what we believe about baptism here at Canvas.

So as we hop into Acts chapter 8, I'm going to keep hammering in this one main point that I believe is true about baptism, that baptism is the culmination of a believer's obedience. Baptism is the culmination of a believer's obedience. And that word believers, that is both plural and possessive. Because not only is the person that's stepping into the tank to get baptized, are they being obedient? But that step of obedience is built on other believers around them, being obedient to do the thing that God called them to do, which is to go into all the world and make disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And so when we see somebody get baptized this morning, we're not just seeing them take a step of obedience, but we're seeing people around them who are followers of Jesus in their life,

who have sowed seeds of gospel into their life, who have encouraged them, who have told them about Jesus, who have reminded them about the faithfulness of God in their life. Baptism is a culmination of the believer's obedience. And that's why at Canvas, oftentimes, the pastors aren't the ones doing the baptizing, because oftentimes, at Canvas, the people that are getting baptized have been far more spiritually influenced by the priests in their life rather than the pastors on the stage. And we think that that's a good thing. We want you to remember that you are a priest to those around you, and that one day you might find yourself down here baptizing somebody in your life because you were faithful to do the thing that God called you to do. See, baptism is the culmination of the believer's obedience.

We're going to see that all throughout Acts chapter 8. And as we hop in, I really want to give us some context, because I think it's important when you just pick a random chapter in the middle of a book that you have the context around it. So what happens at the beginning of Acts is Jesus' last words to his disciples. Many of us are familiar with it in Matthew chapter 28 that I just quoted, right? Go make disciples. But before that, he tells them, you're going to be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. You're going to go from Jerusalem to Judea to Samaria to the rest of the world baptizing people in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And they begin to be obedient to that mission in Jerusalem.

They start preaching the gospel of Jesus all throughout the city of Jerusalem, and the church is exploding. People are getting saved. Acts chapter 2 says that over 2,000 are added to the family of faith in one day. The church is exploding in Jerusalem. But believers get comfortable being obedient, doing the thing that God called them to do in the place that's most comfortable for them to do it. And they just kind of are partially obedient. They're just preaching the gospel and baptizing believers in Jerusalem. They're not really worried about Judea and Samaria because that would take effort for them to step out of their comfort zone and to go to a place that they're not comfortable with. So they kind of get content with partial obedience. And I know we would never do that today.

We never just become partially obedient. We never do the thing that God called us to do where it's most comfortable, and we see the blessing of that, and we're like, I'm just going to firmly plant myself here where I'm comfortable and do the little obedient things that are easy for me to do and not worry about stepping out of my comfort zone. I know that we would never do that, but the early church was doing that. And they were obedient in Jerusalem, but they weren't going out. And so God did what God often does, and he forces them to be obedient even if they're not ready for it. So there's this persecution that arises in the church, and it gets to the point where one of the deacons of the early church was murdered. He was killed for preaching the gospel in Jerusalem.

And the gospel that they were preaching was kind of offensive. The gospel that they were preaching was this Messiah whom you killed. They're preaching this message to the religious leaders. So you can see why they might be offended by that message, this Messiah whom you killed. The reality is we're going to get to this in a little bit, but that's the same gospel that we still preach today. Like our sin took Jesus to the cross. We're the ones who crucified the Messiah. So they're preaching this message, and the church gets to send it in Jerusalem. And they kill Stephen. And this persecution forces the church out of Jerusalem into Judea and Samaria. And so now they're being obedient to the thing that God called them to, but it almost took God forcing them out of their comfort zone in order to be obedient.

I'm sure none of us have ever experienced that either, right, where God forced us out of our comfort zone because we were being disobedient. So this is kind of where we find ourselves. And Philip is one of the early church leaders who got forced out of Jerusalem, and he finds himself in Samaria, and he is having an incredibly successful ministry in Samaria. He's healing the sick. He's healing the blind. He's preaching the message of Jesus, and the gospel is exploding in Samaria. So now we have Philip being obedient to what God has called him to do and seeing success happen in his ministry. He's doing exactly what God's calling him to do, so much so that Peter and John, like the two, like, bosses of the early church, they come out to see Philip, and they're like, this guy is crushing it.

He's doing the thing that God called him to do in a place that's difficult. Samaria was culturally different than what the Jews were comfortable with. And so Philip is doing the thing God called him to do in a place where it is difficult, and he's seeing success. And that's where we get to this passage in verse 26 of chapter 8. He's having success. He's preaching the gospel in Samaria. And it says this in verse 26, As for Philip, an angel of the Lord said to him, Go south down to the desert road that runs from Jerusalem to Gaza. The ESV calls it a desert place. So he started out, and he met the treasurer of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under the Kandake, the queen of Ethiopia. The eunuch had gone to Jerusalem to worship,

and he was now returning seated in his carriage, and he was reading aloud from the prophet Isaiah. So we have Philip being very successful in ministry, doing the thing that God's calling him to do. And God comes to him and says, Hey, I know that you just moved out of Jerusalem into Samaria, and you're having success, and you're doing the thing that I called you to do, but now I want you to go to a desert road. Like, that's tough, right? Like, have we ever heard God speak to us when we're in the middle of doing something that's maybe successful and comfortable, and we're like, I think I heard wrong. Like, I don't think I heard you say what I think I heard you say because I'm doing the thing that you told me to do.

Like, I was there in Jerusalem when you said, Go to Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, preach the gospel, baptize believers. I'm in Samaria, preaching the gospel, baptizing believers. But God tells Philip, Hey, I have an assignment for you. I have a thing for you to do. And it might not be easy. It's going to take you into a desert place. So I think the first point that kind of hammers home this idea that baptism is a culmination of the obedient believer is that baptism starts within obedient believer. As we look at this process of baptism from beginning to end, we're going to see that Philip starts by being obedient. See, everything is going great with Philip. He's finally at the place that God called him to do, and he's having success in ministry, and Jesus says, Go to a desert place.

And so if we think about our own baptism, those of us that are in the room that have gone public with our faith in Jesus, if we think about our own baptism, the reality is that baptism started with an obedient believer. It started with somebody who stepped out of their comfort zone to share the message of Jesus with us, to encourage us to follow Jesus. And so baptism always starts with an obedient believer doing the thing that God called them to do. Each of us are priests where we find ourselves, and God has called us to go into all the world and to preach the message of Jesus and to baptize people in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And so in order for baptism to happen, it has to start with some believer who's willing to say,

I'm going to go where God tells me to go, and I'm going to do what God tells me to do. And so if you're in here, and you're a follower of Jesus, I want to encourage you to build that practice into your life where you can listen to the Holy Spirit enough that you know when he's calling you to go somewhere, that you know when he's calling you to step out of your comfort zone and to plant a gospel seed in the life of somebody around you. Because Philip was having a successful ministry in a comfortable place for him because the gospel was exploding, and Jesus says, now I need you to take a break from this and go to a desert place. And the only way he knows that is if he's willing and intentional in his relationship with God

to listen to the Holy Spirit prompting in his life. Baptisms don't happen without an obedient believer stepping out in faith to do the thing that God called them to do. And we know this, right? Like we know that it's easy for us to come up with excuses. How many times have we heard from God calling us to do something, to step out of our comfort zone, to go over to our neighbor's house, to build a relationship, to step out of our comfort zone, to have a conversation with our coworkers about Jesus, to step out of our comfort zone, to ask somebody how we can pray for them. How often have we had God prompt us to do something like that, and we said, man, that would be awkward. That would be uncomfortable. That would be weird.

How often do we make excuses to not do the thing that God is calling us to do? I think if we're honest with ourselves, it happens all the time. I think about Jonah, right? Like God said, Jonah, you're going to go preach my message to the Ninevites. And he said, no, thank you. I'd rather not, right? And he ran in the opposite direction. How often do we come up with excuses just like Jonah to run in the opposite direction? But for those of you that have been following Jesus long enough, you know that you can keep saying no as much as you want, but eventually God's going to get you to a point where you're going to be obedient. So why not just be obedient immediately, right? That baptism starts with believers being obedient to do what God's calling them to do.

And Philip, I think Philip learned this lesson when they were forced into Samaria because of the persecution of the church. Because we see as we go on, not only does Philip go to the desert place, but he sees this Ethiopian guy who's coming down from Jerusalem. This is important detail to note. But this Ethiopian guy was coming back from Jerusalem. What's happening in Jerusalem? The church is being persecuted. The message that Philip is called to preach is actually a bad message in Jerusalem. So he's coming back from Jerusalem, and he's seated in his carriage, and he's reading from the prophet Isaiah, and listen in verse 29. It says, The Holy Spirit said to Philip, Go over and walk along beside the carriage. Verse 30, Philip ran. I think Philip's gotten to the point where he learned this lesson,

that when God calls you to do something, you just do it. Like he was there in Jerusalem dragging his feet, not wanting to move out of Jerusalem into Samaria or Judea or to the ends of the earth. And ultimately, because the church was disobedient, God brought persecution upon them that forced them to be obedient. Same thing happened to Jonah, right? Like Jonah didn't want to listen to God, and ultimately he ended in the belly of a whale and still ended up doing the thing that God called him to do. So Philip's gotten to this point where he's learned this lesson, that when God tells you to do something, you just do it. I was talking to an old saint a few months ago, and she said, I've been a follower of Jesus long enough to know that when God tells you to do something,

you just do it. How often do we make excuses? How often do we miss out on gospel opportunities because we are tired? Because we don't want to step into an awkward, uncomfortable situation because we don't want to offend anyone. We don't want to tell anyone something they don't want to hear. How often do we miss out on the beginning of a beautiful baptism process because we're not willing to step out in obedience? That baptism starts with an obedient believer. So we have Philip twice obeying God to go to the desert place and then to go into the situation that's probably pretty uncomfortable, right? Like he's going up to a very powerful person who's just coming back from Jerusalem, a place where they are persecuting Christians for preaching the message of Jesus. But Philip ran over, and he heard the man reading from the prophet Isaiah.

Philip asked him, Do you understand what you were reading? Then the man replied, How can I unless someone instructs me? And he urged Philip to come up into the carriage and sit with him. And the passage of Scripture that he was reading was this. He was led like a sheep to the slaughter. And as a lamb is silent before the seers, he did not open his mouth. He was humiliated and received no justice. Who can speak of his descendants? For his life was taken from the earth. So because Philip was willing to be obedient, to go do the thing that God called him to do, God set up this incredibly perfect opportunity for him to preach the message of Jesus to this very important person. Like what are the odds that this guy has a scroll?

Scrolls are very hard to come by in this time. And the eunuch just got a copy of Isaiah, and he just happens to be reading it in his car. And in Isaiah 53, this passage that they're reading is literally the clearest explanation of the message of Jesus in the entire Old Testament. John MacArthur calls Isaiah 53 the Romans road of the Old Testament. It's been historically called a torture chamber for the rabbis. Because Jewish leaders don't believe that Jesus is the Messiah, and then they also believe that Isaiah 53 is a Scripture about the Messiah. And they read it, and it so clearly speaks to the message of Jesus that it's hard for them to reconcile what this passage could mean without it being about Jesus. So God sets up this perfect gospel moment for Philip, which brings me to my next point, which is this,

that baptism not only does it start with an obedient believer, but it's built on a clear understanding of the message of Jesus. Like when we baptize people later this service, what we're doing is they are saying, I understand the message of Jesus, I understand that I have sinned, that I have crucified the Messiah, that Jesus had to come and live a perfect life and die in my place for my sins. And I have placed my faith and trust in that, and I'm going to picture that with my body. I'm going to go under the water saying that I have died to my old self, and I'm being raised to new life in Christ. See, baptism is built on a clear understanding of the message of Jesus. So God sets up this perfect moment for Philip.

He just so happens to have a scroll from Isaiah. He just so happens to be reading the most clear passage about Jesus in the entire Old Testament. And not only that, but he's also interested in having a conversation with a stranger about that passage of Scripture, right? He's like, hey, why don't you get in my car and you tell me what this passage is all about? God has set up this moment. And why did he set it up? He set it up because Philip was willing to be obedient. How often do we miss out on opportunities like this because we make excuses to not do the thing that we know the Holy Spirit is calling us to do? And if we'd be obedient, I can't imagine how many stories we'd have like this, how many stories we'd have where God orchestrated a moment for us, but we made an excuse and missed out on it.

And I know in my own life, I'm sure I've missed out on so many opportunities because I heard the Holy Spirit calling me to step out of my comfort zone, to go to my neighbor's house, to have a conversation with the person at the coffee shop, to do this thing. And I wasn't willing to do it. Philip has learned the lesson that it's better to just be obedient. He steps out of his comfort zone and he's found this perfect opportunity to preach the message of Jesus from Isaiah 53. Let's work through that quickly so we can see how clearly the gospel is found as he preaches this message of Jesus too. This Ethiopian eunuch, Isaiah 53, says, There was nothing beautiful or majestic about his appearance, nothing to attract us to him. He was despised and rejected, a man of sorrows, acquainted with deep grief.

I can't help but think about Philip telling this eunuch. Philip probably, knowing Jesus, seeing him in person, saying there wasn't really anything that special about him. He wasn't that great looking of a guy. He was homeless. We followed him around and he was sleeping in tents, like he's a man of sorrows, acquainted with deep grief. His family turned their back on him. We turned our backs on him and looked the other way. He was despised. We did not care. Yet it was our weakness he carried. It was our sorrows that weighed him down. Think about Philip sharing the message of Jesus, the eunuch, through this passage. But he was pierced for our rebellion. He was crushed for our sins. He was beaten so that we could be whole. He was whipped so that we could be healed.

Philip telling the story of Jesus going to the cross, willingly giving up his life, willingly being led to the cross to be crucified on behalf of us. And then, verse 6, look at this. All of us like sheep, we have strayed away. We have left God's path and gone on our own. And yet the Lord laid on him the sins of us all. I can't help but think Philip saying, hey, you just came back from Jerusalem where they were making animal sacrifices. They were sacrificing lambs. And that is a picture of who Jesus would come to be, that we are those lambs who have gone astray. We've all made decisions that have led us to be in direct rebellion to God. And yet God chose to send Jesus to be the perfect once and for all sacrifice for our sins.

Jesus was that lamb. The temple is no longer needed. The curtain has been torn in two because Jesus is the lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world. How clearly the message of Jesus is found in Isaiah 53. He was oppressed and treated harshly, yet he never said a word. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter. And as a sheep is silent before the shears, he did not open his mouth. Unjustly condemned, he was led away. No one cared that he died without descendants, that his life was cut short and midstream. He was struck down for the rebellion of my people. He had done no wrong and never deceived anyone, but he was buried like a criminal. He was put in a rich man's grave. So we see this message of Jesus, this substitutionary atonement message,

that Jesus is the lamb of God who comes and dies in our place for our sins. But it also has the resurrection prophesied about here. Isaiah 53 was written 700 years before Jesus would come. And the prophet Isaiah says that he was put in a rich man's grave. People that were crucified, people that were tortured, people that were treated like this in Isaiah 53, they don't get buried in a rich man's grave. They get thrown in a pile of other bodies. Like if Jesus' crucifixion went the way that every other crucifixion happened in Rome, they would have just pulled him off the cross and thrown him in a pile of other bodies. But Isaiah prophesying about the coming Messiah, Jesus says that he will be buried in a rich man's tomb 700 years before we know that that happened,

that a rich follower of Jesus paid for a brand new grave to be bought so that Jesus could be buried in it. And he says, But it was the Lord's good plan to crush him and cause him grief. Yet when his life is made an offering for sin, he will have many descendants. He will enjoy a long life. This passage has all of the elements of the gospel. Jesus came, lived a perfect life in our place for our sins. He was buried and he raised again and he has purchased our adoption into the family of God. This is the message of Jesus. And I can't help but think about Philip sharing this message with the eunuch. But not only does he share the message of Jesus, the spiritual realities of the message of Jesus, that all of these things are true, that Jesus has died in our place for our sins,

and that he has purchased for us the opportunity to be part of the family of God. Not only does he share that, but he also shares the practical message of Jesus. See, on the same scroll, in Isaiah 55, verses 1 and 2, I can help but think Philip sharing this passage with the eunuch. It says, Is any of you thirsty? Come and drink. Even if you have no money, come and take your choice of wine or milk. It's all free. Why spend your money on food that does not give you strength? Why pay for food that does you no good? Listen to me, and you will eat what is good. You will enjoy the finest. The message of Jesus isn't just a spiritual reality for your eternity. It's a practical reality for your today. How many of us are tired and worn down from investing in temporary things?

How many of us have been trying to chase success and fulfillment in temporary things? And successes at work in creating the perfect image of the perfect family that we can put on social media so everybody else can be jealous of the life that we lead. We know how exhausting it is to invest in temporary things. And the message of Jesus isn't just spiritual realities for eternity. It's practical realities for today. Come today and drink from the well that is Jesus. He offers us abundant life. He offers us a well that will never run dry. Even when we find ourselves in those valleys in life, we can cling to the fact that Jesus brings us an abundant life. And then the next chapter over, the same scroll, Isaiah 56. How practical is this for the eunuch?

Isaiah 56, verses 3 through 5. It says, I will bless those eunuchs who keep my Sabbath days holy and who choose to do what pleases me and commit their lives to me. I will give them within the walls of my house a memorial and a name far greater than sons and daughters could give.

See, the eunuch's riding home from spending some time worshiping in Jerusalem. He's a seeker of God. He wants a relationship with God. He wants to worship Yahweh, the one true God. But what happened to him in Jerusalem was he was forced to stay outside of the temple. See, eunuchs weren't allowed to go into the temple because they had made decisions or decisions had been made for them that the Jews said, You're not welcome here. You can come kind of close to God, but you're not welcome inside his house. You're not welcome inside his doors. Because they had created a religion that was about decisions and choices rather than faith and trust in God. And Isaiah, 700 years before this man would go to Jerusalem to worship God, says, Listen, I know you've been told you're a dried up tree with no children and no future, but that's not what God says about you.

The world might look at you and say, you've gone too far, you've messed up too much, you've made too many bad decisions, or too many people have treated you poorly. You're not worth the love of God. But that message is not true. This is what God says about you. I will give you a memorial and a name that is far greater than any family lineage that you can leave. This is the message of gospel. The gospel is true for us. That no matter where we've gone, no matter what decisions we've made, no matter what decisions other people have made for us or against us, no matter how much we might feel like damaged goods,

God has given us an opportunity to be adopted into his family. And the legacy that we can leave by being a part of his spiritual family is far greater than any legacy we can leave by being successful at work or building a good life, a happy life with our family, or any of those things. We invest in the kingdom of God, and that kingdom produces eternal results. So if you're tired of trying to find success and satisfaction in this world, if you feel broken down because of decisions you've made or decisions other people have made for you, I believe God brought you here today to hear the same message that Philip shared with the eunuch 2,000 years ago. Jesus has bought for you an inheritance. He has initiated an adoption into his family, and all you have to do is believe it.

Accept it. Receive it. So baptism starts with an obedient believer, and it's built on a clear understanding of the message of Jesus. And then it ends with an obedient believer. So Philip is in this chariot, hearing the message of Jesus clearly preached to him from Isaiah 53. And in verse 34, it says, The eunuch asked Philip, tell me what the prophet is telling him about. So beginning with this same Scripture, Philip told him the good news about Jesus. And as they rode along, they came to some water. And the eunuch said, look, there's some water. What is keeping me from being baptized? So he ordered the carriage to stop, and they went down into the water. And Philip baptized him.

See, baptism starts with an obedient believer, a believer who's willing to step out and to do the thing that God's calling him to do. It's built on the message of Jesus, and it ends then with a new believer stepping out and saying, It's time for me to follow the way of Jesus. It's time for me to start this process of doing the thing that God has called me to do. Baptism ends with an obedient believer. Baptism is the culmination of the believer's obedience. See, in Jewish times, baptism was something that they were very familiar with. It was kind of just like a Facebook status, really. Like, they would get baptized whenever they decided they were going to fast, or whenever they decided that they were going to go on. Like, it was just a way of telling people, I'm doing this thing,

and so they're setting up this monument to tell people, this is what I'm doing. And so I think the eunuch was familiar with this process. He said, I want to follow this man in Jesus. I want to believe that he's the Messiah, the one who God said. I want to set up this monument to tell everyone around that I am going to follow Jesus. So what we say at Canvas a lot is that baptism is a picture of past salvation. We model the gospel as we are buried underwater and raised to new life. It's a picture of our salvation. It's a step of present obedience. We're doing the thing. We're going in front of people and making this public declaration, and it's a monument for future doubt. Like, we're telling everybody right here, right now, I'm doing this thing.

I'm going to follow Jesus. And when the world beats us down, when we find ourselves in the valley struggling to follow Jesus and thinking, man, is this whole thing even real? We can look back to the moment where we came in front of people and declared publicly for the first time, I am going to follow Jesus no matter how hard it might be, no matter how difficult it might be. I'm going to follow Jesus. This baptism is a culmination of a believer's obedience. I was thinking about how to illustrate this. And a couple weeks ago, Marissa and I, the kids are going to come in to wash some dots, which is awesome. A couple weeks ago, Marissa and I planted a couple of herbs. And I'm not an agriculturalist by any stretch of the imagination.

I don't know that I've ever successfully planted any plant and kept it alive. But we did this thing, right? We went to the greenhouse, and we got seeds, and we got soil, and we got buckets, and we got water. And we planted the seed. And throughout the last couple of weeks, we've adjusted where the bucket is so that it gets enough sunlight. And we've put water in the dirt. And we're doing these things. We're planting these seeds. We're making these steps in order for one day, in order so that one day we can see that stalk, that green plant, poke up out of the ground.

I think that's such a good picture of what we see in baptism. See, this decision for somebody to go public with their faith, it's built on hundreds of believers' little decisions to step out of their comfort zone and to plant gospel seeds, to water gospel seeds, to encourage people to follow Jesus.

And this baptism that we're going to celebrate, it's just the first fruit. It's just the green stalk poking out of the ground for the first time because following Jesus doesn't end with baptism. This is just the beginning. They're taking their first steps, and they're going to need us as a family of God to come around them and to disciple them and to encourage them to grow and to keep watering them and to keep putting them into sunlight and to keep putting opportunities for them to grow. So when we celebrate baptism, think about how many moments of obedience led to this point. Like, we're going to have a dad baptize his kids here in a minute. And all I can think about is how many times he was probably tired on his way home from church and didn't want to ask the kids about what they learned in their lesson, but maybe decided to push through that and have those conversations.

I can't help but think about the hundreds of decisions that mom and dad made to have gospel conversations with their kids. I can't help but think of the hundreds of hours that Michelle put in to crafting the lessons for the kids so that they could hear about the message of Jesus and having conversations. I can't help but think about the small group leaders who take time out of their day to volunteer, to have conversation with the kids. Like, baptism is the culmination of a believer's obedience. Hundreds of little decisions and conversations happen behind the scenes to get us to this point, and this is just the beginning.

So as we think about this fresh perspective on baptism, if you're an insider, if you've been around church for a long time, you've seen a lot of these. I hope this story from Philip and the eunuch reminds you that you could be a part of many more baptisms in the future. If you'd be willing to step out of your comfort zone, to be obedient, to do the thing that God's calling you to do. The greatest commission that Jesus gave us as believers is to go into all the world, preaching the good news of Jesus and baptizing people in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. You could be down here. Every week, if you want to, we'll fill up the tank every week. If you step out, if we step out and decide to be obedient, I can't imagine how many of these moments, like God set up for Philip,

he's going to set up for us to have spiritual conversations with people in our lives. Now, if you're an outsider and you kind of think this whole thing is a little bit weird, I hope that you see that God is a very creative God, that he gave us pictures like communion and baptism, not just as a traditional ritual, but literally as a monument for us to remember what we're doing, what we're saying, that we are saying, that we're choosing to follow Jesus with our whole lives. And maybe you're here and you've been thinking about following Jesus for a long time, or you think that you are, but you've never gone public with it. You've never told people that you are today and moving forward going to follow Jesus. There's a table right here with towels, shorts, and shirts.

If you want to get baptized, let's do it. There's nothing holding you back. I love what the eunuch says. He says, look, there's some water. What's keeping me from getting baptized? Same is true for you today. Look, there's some water. What's keeping you from getting baptized? In a few minutes, we're going to celebrate a couple of baptisms. And I love what the passage says. Philip disappears, and the eunuch goes on his way rejoicing. Baptism is a time for us to celebrate. It's a time for us to rejoice with those who are rejoicing. Let's get loud in this place when we baptize. Let's celebrate what God is doing in the lives of those around us. Baptism is the culmination of the believer's obedience. And nothing pleases the Father's heart more than an obedient believer. Let me pray.

Father, we thank you so much for this opportunity to celebrate baptisms this morning. We pray that you would just honor the many obedient steps that were behind each of these baptisms, and that you would help us to realize that it's just the start of the process. That we continue to be obedient to disciples, to encourage, to point towards Jesus. God, thank you for the family of God. I pray that you would just honor the rest of our time this morning. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.
