Born: PEACE
2022-12-19
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IbNxJRn0Dpc

Good morning church, for those of you that haven't met me yet, my name is Ryan, one of the treasures of being one of the pastors here, and I tend to not cry in public, but this morning might be a test of that, we'll see if else, we'll see how it goes, and this morning I just feel the weight of the task that I've been given, but then I must preach peace. In the season that for so many of us doesn't feel very peaceful. For those of us that life is going as good as it's ever been, let me remind you that Christmas is next week. So even if you're in a season where life is great, you probably have gifts to buy and parties to go to and rooms to clean, and if you're anything like me, even in the depths

of circumstances around Christmas, it can be stressful, it can be overwhelming, it can be filled with anxiety. But chances are for many of us, life isn't going as good as it should possibly be done. As a matter of fact, Christmas often excruits some of the most difficult circumstances in our lives. Christmas often reminds us that loved ones that we wish were here are not here, that family units that once were together are no longer together. Things that we never set out to be true are true, and we're reminded of the fleeting nature of peace. I feel the weight of that this morning.

What I believe with all of my heart, what the Scripture says is true, that there is a peace that passes understanding that is available to each and every one of us this morning, no matter the circumstances. No matter the difficult circumstances you might be facing right now, there is a peace that is available to you. And I just wrestled with that this week. And I want to extend that to you in a way that's accessible, that's not shallow, that's real. And so let's pray and ask for the Holy Spirit to do it each and every one of us to communicate his truth to us in a way that's accessible and real for where we are this morning. Father, Father, we pray that, over this morning, the Holy Spirit came into the stairs of this room, into the individual's hearts and minds of this room.

As I preach what you've given me to preach on peace, may it be received at the individual level. May your believers know that peace is available to them, no matter the circumstances after them. May the people who are not insecure, where they stand with you, or if they even believe that you exist, may they realize that through submitting your life to your leaders, that they might receive a peace that passes all understanding and no matter the circumstances they face. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Hey, that was heavy. Let's lighten it up a little bit. How many of you are people that like to change your own oil? Do me a favor, raise your hand if you're a change-your-own-oil type of person, or if you're the spouse of a change-your-own-oil type of person, raise your hand, awesome, love it.

I've mentioned many times on these days that I'm not a handy person, that I'm not good at doing handy things, but even I have changed my own oil. Even I have been able to do that, but when we look at Virginia, our garage is like tiny, like my car bear, that's just my garage. So I move up on the changing of the oil, and I go to one of those rap-a-loop places. You guys know what I'm talking about? The three, four, five big garages. They drive you in, they drive you out, they change your oil, you know what I'm saying? You also know that they always kind of upsell you on, like, everything that you could ever not need, they try and sell it to you. And I'm like, I was, I'm a piece of paper, I don't like to say no to people, and so they tend to sell me in their social that I know I don't need.

I'm like, no, thank you, no, thank you, no, thank you, no, thank you. One time, I was at a rap-a-loop place, and they actually offered to allow you my time. Okay, here's what I know about rap-a-loop places. If you never work at one, no offense. Not the type of people I'm going to trust are on my tires. I trust them with my oil, because here's the reality. If they screw up my oil, my hands are going to blow them. If they screw up my tires, I might blow them, right? And so there's, like, this level of trust where I'm like, hey, you can change my oil, but please, please, do not change my tires. And the reason I share this with you at the beginning of a message on peace is because I believe it gives us a helpful framework for where we're heading down a message.

Because as I studied this idea of peace in the Scriptures this week, ultimately, I realized that peace is about alignment. That true peace comes from our alignment in life. When we are aligned with the creator of the universe, we can experience peace no matter the circumstances. Well, our alignment is dependent on who we trust with the leadership of our lives. And some of us are trusting ourselves or other people or circumstances with the leadership of our lives, and we're never going to experience true peace. There's always going to be a level of alignment that isn't there. But ultimately, if we want true, lasting peace that comes no matter the circumstances, it's all dependent on who we align our lives. Good. See, in the Bible, peace isn't just about the absence of war, but it's about the presence of something better.

It carries, like, at this idea of complete fullness. Actually, in the Bible, it can be used, the word flow, peace, it can be used to describe a rough law that's perfectly aligned, without blemets. It's as the designer intended it to be. But I have to define peace, biblical peace, learning words. I would say this, a biblical peace is the experience of creation in complete alignment. Peace is creation in complete alignment. Have you ever really felt this deep in your soul? This might seem like a ambiguous definition, but for me, it's like a few days into a deep vacation, when everything's going right. When I have enough money saved up for the deep vacation, and everything is going right, there's no dress or difficulty. There's no relational tension in a filt by the way it's crashing on my feet with my loved ones, and I'm experiencing this feeling of peace.

It doesn't last very long, but I've experienced it before. Do you guys know about the feeling that I'm talking about? If we're honest, that feeling often is very sweet and it doesn't last forever long to feel it grasping after a bus in the wind. And the reason of this is because I believe, and most of us in the media are followers of Jesus Christ, because we believe that the reason the moments like this don't last very long is because we believe that creation has been thrust out of alignment. I believe in the garden, they chose to rebel against God's original desire, and his emotion, his alignment for creation. Everything was good and very good in the garden. There was relational peace. There was provisional peace. There was spiritual peace. It was all aligned as God intended it to be an avenue that a moment rebelled against God,

and it thrusts all of creation out of alignment. Scripture says that creation groans and humanity roars as a result of that rebellion, and you and I, we all experience that sin in rebellion. We've all made an active intention of a decision to rebel against the creator of the universe, and because of that rebellion, our peace is fleeting. It's like grasping at dust. And when we have moments and glimpses of it, but it's impossible to possess. It's impossible to possess. It's impossible to possess. Sounds like that. Anybody else request yet? We're going to be good news. In that moment, when creation was thrust out of alignment, the God of the universe began a process of restoring all of creation back to eternal, back to complete alignment, the way that he intended it to be. It was a process that is going to take way longer than you and I ever would have designed it to take.

It is a process that is perfect. And his goal is to restore all of us creation so that one day every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus is Lord. This process of restoration started the moment that it was thrust out of alignment. God promised to ease that from the seed of a woman there would come a son who would trust the head of the son. It started with promises to individuals and covenants with groups of people. It grew into the establishment of kings and kingdoms. And the funny thing about the kings and kingdoms part is that wasn't God's plan either, but we continued to prevail. The nation of Israel said, we want a king like all of the other nations. And God says, no, you don't. You want me to be your king.

I'm your king. This thing will work better if I'm in charge. And they said, nope. No thank you. We want a king like all the other nations. And so God continued his perfect plan. Even in the midst of their rebellion, he established kings and kingdoms. And this process seemingly drug on for thousands of years. And so the entire plan came into focus in a single night and a little son called the son. Where a child was born. A son was given. A son who would take ownership of the culmination of his plan of restoring peace to all his children. And he would do the hard and sacrificial work to establish a new type of kingdom. A spiritual kingdom that will continue to expand and bring alignment to individuals and churches. And so one day he will return again and finalize his everlasting kingdom.

And creation will be a real life once and for all. And that feeling of peace will be all that we will ever know. And I am increasing far better than you are listening to this. Come on. This program has been started. And we've seen glimpses of it all throughout our lives and all throughout the community. And I know what you're thinking. Ryan, that's a really inspirational story. And I believe in it. And I'm excited for it. But what about now? How do I experience peace now in the midst of creation, thrust out of alignment? How can I experience peace when my desire to sin is so overwhelming? When so many of my relationships are broken. When I can't pay my bills and my loved ones are suffering. How do I experience peace in those moments of my own love, selfishness, and anger, fear, disappointment? Where is peace found in all of that?

I'm glad, yes. Because that's the rest of my outline. If you have your bubbles, I'd love for you to turn to Psalms chapter 23. This is not a concept that often gets read at Christmas time. But I think it's a perfect, practical explanation of how you and I can experience peace in the midst of even the most difficult situations and circumstances. So in chapter 23, starting in verse 1, David said, David, one of the greatest poets of all time is writing his exclamation, his poetic exclamation of what peace feels like.

This is David's verse that I might be speaking to you. You guys hear this? This is David saying, this is what peace feels like. And he starts out in verse 1 by saying that this peace comes from us trusting the creator of the universe with leadership of our lives. This is Yahweh, the Lord, he is my shepherd. Creator God is the one that I follow. And when I follow to the leader God, Yahweh, he lets me rest in green meadows and leads me beside peaceful things. When God is the leader of my life, I experience peace. The more I study peace this week, the more I realize that true alignment is based on who it is that is in charge of being aligned.

And the same reason why I trust the rest of these guys to align my desires is the same reason that you and I assume that anyone or anything has leadership of any area of our life other than the one who made us and who knows what is good.

We know this. It might seem like an obvious answer, but it isn't that simple. We might all agree intellectually with the statement. We might all say yes and amen, but what happens between a pew or a seat at church on Sunday and tomorrow I spend a few? Things don't go the way that we think it should be going and we say, whoever's in charge of my life right now, they don't get to be in charge anymore. I'm going to take that control because this isn't working out the way that I thought this would work out.

We don't often, I don't often ask people over to my house because it's very far away and I feel bad asking people to drive holding up them through the woods to pass around the house and go. That's what it feels like. And so when people do come over, I try and make it a fun experience. I had a big bonfire, I was kind of side by side. And last time people were over, we had a group of young kids and I was letting them kind of clean those drives just side by side along the property. And one of my favorites, children, Colvin Smith, kid is good at driving. He's grown up driving stuff, snow carts, lawn mowers, like he, I've got some trust in him to take the wheel of the side by side. And so I was letting him drive the side by side of him and honestly paying less attention to him than most of the kids because he has experience, he knows what he's doing.

But there was a few moments when we were accelerating faster than I would like and we were heading in a direction that I wasn't really thrilled with and I had this urge in me to do what? It's the wheel. And he's like, no, buddy, we're not going there, we're not doing that, we're going on a brake, drift the wheel in the other direction. And I share this illustration with you because I'm thinking of this as such a clear picture of what we do in our everyday life. We're headed in a grip. Things are happening in life that we're not comfortable with. Things are going on around us and we say, God, I trusted you yesterday, but I'm not sure what you're doing today. And we grab a hold of the wheel and it's in my pastoral opinion that this is the cycle in our lives that keeps us from experiencing true spiritual peace that passes understanding.

We're following God and things are going well, and then something bad happens. And we decide the whole following God thing isn't working out anymore, and so we're going to take that control. And if we're really honest with ourselves, don't we make it worse? We make it worse, but in the moment, the temptation is, this isn't working out the way that I thought it was going to work out, so let me take back the wheel for a little bit. I'll give it back to you. I'll let you have leadership of my life later once I figure out all this stuff going on, once I get myself back in alignment, then you can have control to make it worse. And David knows this, and he tells us of some obstacles to our peace, some obstacles that make us want to take back control of our lives.

In verses 4 and 5, he's going to say that circumstances, difficult circumstances, and enemies are the two main obstacles that rob us of our peace, that make us want to take the wheel back from God. When difficult circumstances come into our lives, or when enemies surround us, look at how David says, if he says a better line of word, he says, Even when I walk through the darkest valleys, I will not be afraid for your close beside me, your rod and your staff protect and comfort me. David says, Sometimes following your step leads you into dark valleys and difficult circumstances. Sometimes following Yahweh as your shepherd and your leader leads you through dark valleys, difficult circumstances, sickness, relational stress, financial stress, failures at work or with your kids. Things just pile up, and it makes you feel like you're in the valleys of the sorrow of death.

We often follow the shepherd until it starts to get dark and difficult, and then we grab a hold of all the wheels. Financial stress. Financial stress. Financial stress. We panic. We stop being generous, and we start to worry and fear, which often leads us to overwork. Or the opposite. We have crippling anxiety about what in the world we are going to be, and so we can't even move. So we self-meditate. Whatever your form of self-meditation is, you know, I know what mine is, you know what yours is, this is what we do when financial stress comes. When relational stress comes, we feel hurt, so we get angry. We lash out against or avoid the people that we love.

Again, self-meditation through screen-gazing, substances, whatever it might be for you. Physical stress. We get diagnosed with the sicknesses out of our control. The baby that we've been training for for years never comes, and we get angry with God. And we start down a path that leads to bitterness and resentment, and before we know it, I'm sorry. We're so hard towards the one who has committed us and loved us and wants to lead us through this dark valley and into greener pastures and besides still waters, but we can't get there because our hearts are so hardened. Spiritual stress. We fail as a friend, as a spouse, or as a parent. We're crippled with shame and regret and self-hatred, so we do the same thing that you did. We have some good. We know that he can't stand us.

He must be so angry with us. We believe the lie of the enemy. Or we do the opposite. We're trying to put on a good, religious faith. We're trying to pretend like we're better than we are. Because we know if God's none of us, maybe we can convince our Christian friends that we're more spiritual than we actually are. And this is the cycle that throws so many of us out of alignment. Difficult circumstances arise. And although we confess that we trust God in reality, we take back control over our lives and we make it worthless. Romans 8, verse 6 says that the mind governed by the flesh leads to death. When we trust our own flesh, our own desires, our own feelings, with the government, the leadership of our life, it leads to death. With the mind that is governed by the spirit, it leads to life and peace.

Who is leading you to these difficult circumstances? When the valley of the shepherd just finds its way into your life, the response is not to stop following the shepherd. The response is to remember that the shepherd is the one who at first led you beside still waters and aim to bring your palm trees. And to know that the shepherd has a plan through the valley to get you back to bring your palm trees. No promise that comes from the side of his return, but he has a plan. And we can trust him. And David knows this. David was a shepherd. David had led lots of sheep beside green pastures and through, and besides still waters and aim to green pastures. And he also had led sheep through dark valleys because he had a plan to get them to the next green pasture, to fill the water, the bigger pasture.

God has a plan. And David knows that it's in the valley of the shadow of death that we're tempted to take back control. But he knows that it's in those times we remind ourselves that God is right, and it's God that protects and comfort us. I don't know what valleys might be facing you today, but I believe with all of my heart that the Lord is a good shepherd who wants to read and see what he's violated. So if green pastures and the side still waters and again, it might not come in the time that you want it to come, but it will come. Difficult circumstances are one obstacle to a piece, the second obstacle to a piece, the enemy. David says, you prepare a piece for me in the presence of my enemies. You honor me by anointing my head with oil.

My cup ovens words with a blessing. Surely your goodness and unfailing love will pursue me all the days of my life, and I will live in the house of the Lord. This is the second biggest obstacle to our piece. And I know you guys are all more Christian than I mean, and we've never admitted you guys, none of you in here have enemies, right? So I guess you're too Christian for us. How are you? Christ and enemies. Both physical enemies and spiritual enemies. Individuals who have betrayed you deeply. Some of your closest friends, the people that are supposed to be the safest people have betrayed you. Bosses have taken advantage of you, drop out maybes, drive you nuts. There's people all around you that are trying to rob you of your peace. And on top of our sinful enemies, we struggle with spiritual enemies.

The Bible says, let the enemy of God comes to steal, steal, and destroy your peace. Those enemies will often surround us. And what happens when we have enemies that surround us? We want to take that control of our lives. God, you're not handling this person the way that I would want you to handle this person. It seems like they're not experiencing the justice that you say you're all about. I'm the one experiencing the pain. There's no justice for them. So why don't I take that control just for a minute, and I'll show them what justice feels like. And then I'll let you have some soul back. Anybody? No. That's not how peace is experienced. See, David is writing both as yes and shepherds, but David also has had the experience of being a king. Look what he says in verse 5.

He says, you prepare a feast for me in the presence of my enemies. A king is the only person that can prepare a feast in the presence of enemies. The people all around the nation are looking around, and they say, we're surrounded by enemies. We've got to start rallying. We've got to rally the streets. We've got to get in position. And oftentimes, the king knows, hey, we've already got a plan for this stuff. We're going to have victory over these enemies. You might not see it. But I know things that you don't know. I have access to information you don't have access to. So I can throw a feast in the presence of your enemies because I have a plan for victory. And David says, this is the type of plan we serve, that even when we feel like we're surrounded,

and there is no hope to be found, there is no victory to be had, he says, trust the king who has a plan. The king knows what you don't know. He has information that you don't have, his thoughts are higher than your thoughts. His ways are higher than your ways. You can have peace in the midst of being surrounded by your enemies because God ultimately will bring about justice. Maybe not the way that you would bring about justice, but I promise you it's going to be better. Maybe not in the timing that you would bring about justice, but I promise you it's going to be better. 1 Corinthians 15 says, death has been swallowed up in victory. This is our king, this is his plan. Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sin?

The sin of death, it's sin, the power of sin, it's the law, but thanks be to God. He gives us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.

When all hope for peace seems lost. And when the valley of the settled death, when we're surrendered by enemies, the response is not to take that control. The response is to trust yourself to King Jesus, who has overcome spiritual enemies and will bring about ultimate justice. He's going to the sword of all things to the ways. There'll be one day, he's going to wipe all their tears from your eyes. There'll be no mourning. There'll be no sadness. There'll be no... And as we talk about, we light a candle because Jesus is coming and partially established his kingdom. And one day he's going to establish it. He met blue or any white clarity to hear from our eyes. It's no longer going to be a little frame. But the Bible says that Jesus, the presence of Jesus, will replace the Son.

No more need for the Son as to the moon. Jesus will reveal once and for all what Jesus was meant to do. He will bring it to the one moment. Enemies, come on, trust us from joy. I think the words have said just perfectly encapsulated this entire message. You know, I'm not going to specifically to see another Messiah because I wanted to quote this verse in Daniel chapter 3. When a couple of people who, if you grew up in search, you probably know them lovingly as, um, what is it, Sadrach and Benny? Is that who it is? Rad, Sadrach and Benny, there you go. There you go. There you go, people. These people of God. God's nation have been ripped away from their homeland and been taken into captivity by enemies. By battle line. And King Nebuchadnezzar, this evil king that was against the things of God and against the people of God, said,

You are going to have to bow down to my leadership. Forget the leadership of this God of Israel. Bow down to my leadership. Enemy. Surrounded by enemy. And this is what the response was. He said, If you don't bow down to me, I'm going to throw you into the fire from us. And this is the response of a few godly people who realize no enemy can rob me of the peace that God has for me. They said, King Nebuchadnezzar, We do not need to defend ourselves before you on this matter. If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God we serve is able to deliver us from it, and he will deliver us from it. These people, surrounded by enemies in a space to believe that God would provide victory for them in this situation.

But I love the next person. But even if he doesn't, we want you to know in the next few days that we will not serve your God or worship the image of God that you have set up. This is an example for us of what it looks like to submit to the leadership of Jesus. Even when you're surrounded by enemies, we trust that he's going to have a breakthrough in this moment, in this situation, that he's going to provide victory for my enemies here and now. But even if he doesn't, we know that he ultimately will. And so we walk into the fire knowing that surely your goodness and my healing ones are consumed. In all the days of my life, I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I love how him,

I would all dismiss places. He says this, In the secret of God's tabernacle, or God's presence, no enemy can find this. No troubles can reach them. The pride of men and the stress of sons find no entrance in the pavilion of God. People that are much older than me just know a better way of using words than I do. It's a very good time. It's incredible. He says, I do not mean that no trials come. They may come in abundance, but they do not penetrate the sanctuary of the soul. We may dwell in perfect peace in the midst of life's fiercest storms. Let me tell you what happened to Shadrach, and Frank and Abednego. Did God deliver them from the sons? No. He went with them and missed them. He was delivering his words of the presence

in the midst of the most difficult circumstances. Believer, if you're being here, you're struggling for peace. I don't know exactly what it looks like for you, but I believe that the presence of God is what he made with.

Yes, he can deliver you, but even if he doesn't, his presence is enough. Genuine biblical peace that alignment that we were intended for comes from submitting ourselves to God. There's a shepherd who leads us through difficult circumstances and king who prepares a peace for us in the midst of our enemy. Experiencing peace on earth in the midst of signs is all about who we trust with the leadership right now. We're going to start to conclude by reading the verse that I'm supposed to read at Christmas time. I don't know if you. Isaiah chapter 9 says this, for to us a child is born. To us a son is given and the government will be on his shoulders and he will be called wonderful counselor, mighty government, everlasting father and prince of peace and of the greatness

of his leadership, his government and peace will be known and he will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom establishing it and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever the zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. Isaiah 9 prophesies of the original climates that God made to me or that God made to Eve in Genesis chapter 3. I'm going to send the son who's going to cross the head of the serpent. The son has been born. He has established his kingdom and his kingdom is expanding. His government, his rule is expanding and will continue to expand until one day he returns once and for all and spits on his eternal throne establishing peace and justice for all. This passage was already begun to be fulfilled. An infant born in Bethlehem

and a couple thousand years later you and I will sit in this room in northern Virginia. It's his government. It's his reign expanding. Two billion plus Christians are a result of this baby being born in Bethlehem. Not because he was just born but because he would live a perfect sinless life and he would die in your place for your sins and all of that is beautiful and wonderful but it means nothing apart from an empty team he has victory over sin, death, and the grave. Victory over any difficult circumstances you might have. Hebrews says that in every way he understands the difficult circumstances that he files and temptations that we face and yet he did not sin.

the moment the reason was crossed out of the line that God began to pray for real and it was when he was praying from the birth of Jesus to see the woman that would trust the head of the faith and has been born and his student has been established and is expanding where you trust to him with the leadership of your life to the home. It's your only hope for true and understanding peace in the midst of a broken world. This is what the Christian lives is all about. There is submitting every area of your life to the leadership of Jesus. There is becoming far more patriotic to the kingdom of God than any kingdom this world has to offer or any kingdom you have to find blessing. In just a minute we're going to

celebrate some baptism. Baptism is such impressive way to end this message. This is that to me is a picture of these individuals telling you publicly I'm submitting my life to the lordship of Jesus to the leadership of Jesus. He has his way in every area of my life. We have a church we doctored in two different ways and both of them are symbols of us bowing in reverence and submission to the leadership of Jesus. When we doctored people forward in this same I'm bowing my life in submission to the Father the God the Son and God the Holy Spirit and when we baptized backwards they said I must guide to my old life and I've been raised to be life in Jesus. Those pictures have submitted to the leadership of Jesus. So if you're in here

and you've never submitted your life to the leadership of Jesus I invite you to do so today. You're here right now because God is drawing you to who he says Jesus. sitting at your attention this morning and you in your chair today since Jesus I invite you to have leadership for my life. If you are brave and you want to make that decision today for the first time come up and get baptized we've got foes we've got vows we've got you covered as you feel the Lord draw on you to submit your life to his readership for the first time today coming back. If both of those things are too intimidating and you're not serving for it understanding what this whole thing means come ask the Lord through these two times I'm going to be one of our

readers as well to talk to you about what it looks like to submit your life to the readership follower of Jesus are you ready to see your face with you because I'm stepping on my information what area of your life are you holding on to what you're doing what areas of sin are you refusing to let God work on you in your finances is it an addiction is it bitter influence or unforgiveness against some area of self distinction in your life and ask God to reveal to you what are the areas of your life that you're still holding on to the readership of your life many of us are in the midst of the darkest valleys and we're surrounded by enemies and it feels hopeless and chaotic and unnatural urges to grab all the readership of

our life I keep with you this morning don't buy the lies of your name that says you're a better reader Jesus is a better reader his ways are harder than all ways his paths are all in the others and we should make ours his leadership amen after pray those of you that are being baptized to come forward and I pray here in just a minute and ask the worship team to come back up and lead us in this song another and another Messiah saying it's just a great response to what we've heard here this morning that we might walk through dark valleys we might be surrounded by enemies but God will meet us his presence will dwell with us in the midst of the fire his presence will be with us and his presence will

bring us peace no matter the circumstances of our lives but we're going to actually do something different we're going to worship while we baptize worship is a celebration of what God is doing and has done us bringing to God and receiving his blessings over us and celebrating what God has done in the individual's lives we're going to do that we're going to stand we're going to worship we're going to sing and when we baptize people if you don't yell louder than you're going to yell at your TV later this afternoon when your favorite team scores itself down then maybe maybe you are like to take that leadership as it is in your life we celebrate this morning new life in Jesus renewed life in Jesus peace that causes understanding let's pray Father thank you so

much for the peace that you offer us for the leadership that you give to our lives your kingdom has been established and will continue to be established until one day you will return and make everything of us you will like the way of research in our lives it will be nice peace for morning sickness or sadness we will only know the experience of creation and align with your God that until that day comes may we be clean in your presence in the midst of our darkest valleys and only feel like we're surrounded by love may we feel in your peace in Jesus name amen
