Born: LOVE
2022-12-05
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q6V9IHjVeCU

Let me start just letting you know ahead of time that I've been asked to keep my message for 15 minutes, which is really hard for me. And I'm a believer that we should continually learn in whatever we do. And so you're my game kid today. As a governor for myself, I'm going to try to preach from a manuscript. I've never done it before, but we're going to give it a shot. And it's the one way to corral myself. I've talked to this five times this morning and it's between 11 and 15 minutes. So that's good. And number two, I've seen some folks do a really amazing job preaching with a manuscript. And I thought, why not give a response to them? So bear with me. You know, there are four words that are most connected with Advent.

Hope, love, joy, peace. Today's words love unfortunately suffers from a maligning culture often focused on sexual desires relative to love rather than biblical descriptors like patience, kindness, not seeking its own. Cultural distortions like sappy, country, western songs. Or manipulative testosterone riddled teenage rucks seeking stuff by asking the saints who love me. Or recognized catchphrases like love brings. To reduce morality to a personal desire. Biblical love, however, much more than this. Bob Gaff approaches it in his biblical book, biblical love book titled Love Does. Well, love does. While love may carry deep affections with it, you know, I often say, God only loves you, he likes you. He's not sedent you. But the truth will the loving act of Advent, the Incarnation, his coming at some feelings of desire or affection. I've got more of that

right now. Maybe I'll stick with his name. It's just just a little bit much. Christ Incarnation. Jesus was perfect. And we're talking perfect perfection. Jesus was in perfect community with the Father and with the Spirit. We talk about koinonia. Absolute perfect koinonia from which he chose voluntarily to leave and answer the first pool of human relationships. You know, if I think about Mother Teresa entering the city of joy, Jesus' coming is like that on stairways. Mother Teresa was an Albanian nun who chose to leave the comforts of her nunnery and gave the city of joy, which was a place in Calcutta, India. Some of the poorest of the poor, the place a little marginalized, were forced to live. The low spot in the city where when the sewers would overflow, they would flood that area

during the monsoon and people would have to walk in need to get deep water that was infested with open sewers. And the small of three feet difference between her nunnery and death is this part of Jesus' heaven was over there and he came here. The challenge is more about the death. St. Francis of Assisi in the self-imposed penance because he had offended a letter, he had achieved a letter in something love-spending, recognized in his own demeanor what he has done, and forced opponents upon himself to train himself to have a common meal with this brother with advanced lecithy where his fingers are now dripping from his hands and the first digit is almost gone and together they had a common meal out of one bowl. And as I think about that and that sick feeling of the

song, and what St. Francis of a recent chemistry even with the leper is feared as well, Jesus started right over there and in the incarnation he came here. Have any of you like me ever wondered how Jesus escaped the mental wounding that often accompanied to the realities? Jesus in the understanding of his whole community was the product of premarital sex in a world where children were ostracized along with their mother. His formative years were spent before in constant and while you were the ancient and a young child, his formative years were stuck to develop inside of you and the best he was an immigrant at worst through the rest of the years. Scripture tells us that he was defied. It says, quote, nothing in his appearance that we should goodbye to him. That's a kind

of word of song of it. He was rejected by his own community. All of these things we've created or we've identified, we've recognized syndromes that happen to us today. Anyone else ever wonder how Jesus ended up without the psychological syndromes in the mysticism convention?

This morning I'm going to talk about love. There are words to all of them today. The Bible calls us the two progressively radical manifestations of love. The first is, love your neighbor as you said. Matthew 22, 34 through 40, lays about. We find Jesus where Jewish leaders are trying to discredit him. The Sadducees have failed. The Scriptures say that they were silenced by Jews and so the Pharisees tag teams into a wrestling match of Jesus. The Pharisees out the Pharisees enemies under disgrace Jesus. And they say for extra on the law, asking. What's the greatest commandment? And you know Jesus is thanks. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, love you, strength. And the second is like it. Love your neighbor as you said. For all the law and the prophets come on

these two commands. James, Jesus' natural brother and leader of the early church, echoed these words. He talked about the royal love, that royal law of love, found in Scripture, love your neighbor as yourself. And then he conjects it to which of it. He puts it over again, showing savorism to people like you, the people you like, the people who can further your agenda. This is why we're here today, folks. Because love is not a feeling. It's not the fulfillment of a desire. Love wins not when it secures perceived right or gets beyond third base with its girlfriend, but when it serves its community. I think our litigy today will be praised. Thank you, Donovan, for leading hearing of the word, preaching of the word. And number three, serving our neighbor. And so since litigy is

actually grounded in Romans 12 verse 1, different translations render the exact same words that Paul says in that verse intentionally, one translation rendition is spiritual worship, and the other is reasonable service. In other words, in the words that Paul shows, the fear of understanding is spiritual worship and reasonable service. Therefore, I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as a living and sacrifice fully and pleasing to God. This is your word to worship Christ reasonable service. I think Matt Redman hit it right in Hard Horse if it's more than a son. By way, an argument of the book is you keep his wife repressed. Antonin now is the Densky, who ran Europe's largest zoo like a game type in the outskirts of Warsaw. Until during World War II,

German Blitzkrieg used the East West to bomb Warsaw into rubble. Most of the animals that were left at that point were shipped back to Germany. The remaining ones became entertainment as a private hunting garden for SF officers. As a Christian, he felt compelled to care for creation, Antonin now was devastated. But she said, it was not to dream of death, but merely a week of sleep. before God could use the wicked in the day for his good purpose. And when her husband Jan was appointed by the Nazis as superintendent of the clerks, she opened a pit farm on the gardens to remove one of his occupiers from Haiti Jews. And while the Nazis systematically killed thousands of Polish Jews from starvation in the Warsaw ghetto, finally he was sending others to death to us. Antonin

smuggled pork to starving Jews and used a labyrinth of pages in the park ground to hide hundreds of Jews which he eventually smuggled out to safety. That's the under a tree along Jerusalem's avenue of the righteous among the nations when he yelled to them all across the hands.

Jesus says love you neighbor. Love you neighbor. But in John 13 34 through 40 Jesus gives a more radical command of life. Brothers this one is not focused so much on neighbor but on all brothers. Those who are in the household of God. Context. Judas has just blessed the last couple thank unto Israel Jesus for a few gold things. Jesus declares that the testicus of his crucifixion quote now the Son of Man is glorified. By the way I know that you know the crucifixion doesn't typically parallel to glory in my thinking but it does in what's the time of Jesus. Now the Son of Man is glorified and God is glorified in him. Next Jesus is as he said I'm going to do something you don't want to do. You're going to watch me suffer

and you're going to watch me die for you. So it's a leadership of a shepherd not a cattle holder. Tattle holders drive others with their agenda. Shepherds lead by going first. They model. Jesus in essence is saying because I love you I am going to die and this kind of love it glorifies father. But then Jesus says I hear the touch for it. A new command they give to you love one another. Let me tell you what I mean by that Jesus faith. As I have loved you as you're going to watch my love for you manifest in my willingness to go to the cross on your behalf to suffer as I have loved you so you must love one another. By this everyone will know that you are my defender if you love one

another. Folks love your neighbor. Love your neighbor even love one another beyond you. Jesus says love one another as I have loved you and when you do that people will pay attention in the future year before it. April 26, 1986 its noble nuclear power training did U-10 explode and releases 400 tons of radiation of Hiroshima. That explosion initiated a lava flow of radioactive molten metal toward the pool of cooling water. If it reached the pool it would have set off a more massive explosion not only leveling the entire plant but destroying peace of Europe. We're talking both rest and east and rendering it uninhabitable for 500 years. Three workers. We don't know the names. Three workers volunteered to wade through knee deep radioactive water in a pitch black basement to open subtle sandals and drain

the pool. They volunteered knowing that the exposure of a violent attempt would result in certain slow agonizing deaths over the next few months from radiation poisoning. excruciating this. Following the underwater pipes down home the volunteers fell in the bounds and draining the pool. Those above heard the water forcing out of the basement and erupted in spontaneous story and to be honest I have to believe that the two volunteers felt both to find joy and devastating fear. You know some of the denominations of those two heroes remain anonymous because of a Soviet trouble. You know I guess it only asks the illustration. I often joke that I'm willing to pick up the garbage but I won't sell it for it. The fear is love not for a grand blessing. It's love for life. Today folks our

spiritual worship is a reasonable service as we love our neighbors against as we love and friends. With that I pray that the people would be grace between limiting us to love our neighbors and ourselves to love one another as Christ loves ourselves to the glory of God. Mike can you come and tell us how we can love our neighbor? May the Holy Spirit tell us how we can love one another as Christ loves us.
