Wisdoms Compared
2022-04-04
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jDc1SBUGsgM

How's it? There we are. Now we're all right. Good morning, Canvas. For those of you who do not know me, my name is Ryan. I'm one of the pastors here. I'm so glad that you have joined us this morning. And this is my first time back preaching in a couple of weeks, which I am excited about. Just a little peek behind the curtain. I've never really preached more than like six or eight times a year throughout my existence as a pastor. I think I've done that this year already. So it was nice to have a little bit of a break. I'm just super thankful for everybody at our church that has really just been stepping up and doing so much to serve and build the kingdom of God together.

You know, we talk a lot about the priesthood of all believers. And we've been talking a lot in our elders meetings about just how amazing the group of people that God has brought together at Canvas Church. The line that we've been using regularly is like, there's like a group of people that call Canvas home that I would storm the gates of hell against, that I would build the kingdom of God with the city of Winchester at. And so we're excited that you are joining us as we continue our series through the book of James. Just to review, if you're new or you've missed a couple of weeks, kind of give a holistic perspective on the book of James. James is the half-brother of Jesus, which is pretty incredible that you think that a sibling would write a book claiming that his brother is the Messiah, the Son of

God. Pretty impressive apologetics for us. Like if you have a brother or sibling, like that's a cool thing to keep in the back of our minds as we read the book of James. And James is really concerned with the quality of a believer's relationship with God. Like he's concerned that there's a group of people that are in the church that are being deceived into believing that they have a genuine relationship with God when in actuality they're just playing some religious games. They're checking a few boxes. They're changing their behavior a little bit, but really they don't have any life transforming relationship with God. And James is constantly asking people to examine their own lives. He's unwilling to let us get away with intellectual dishonesty, right? Like he constantly says, you think you're a believer. You think that you have a relationship with God. Do you actually, like what are your, what

does your behaviors say about it? He says that our actions actually help us determine the quality of our faith. And it's not, it's not about whether or not we question our salvation. The reality is, is he wants us to be honest with ourselves about our relationship with God because our relationship with God is like the most important thing that we have. And so the quality of our relationship with God really matters. And he says, the reason it matters in chapter one, we talked about this is trials and temptations are going to come into your life. And if you have this kind of like shadow version of Christianity, that there's no real substance to it. Like when trials and temptations come into your life, that's when it's really going to expose. And those are the times you don't want to be exposed that you don't have

a genuine relationship with God, right? Like those times that come into our life and are really difficult. If we're faking it, if we're pretending, if we're playing a religious game, James is saying trials and temptations will come and will reveal those things. So when things are going good, like pay attention, focus on your behavior. And he's done that in a couple of different ways. The last couple of weeks, uh, he said, so you think you're a Christian, you think you're a follower of God, but then you're discriminating against people based on, you know, what they bring to the table, how much money they have, their appearance, their social status. He's like, that's, that's a religious struggle. Like that's not a genuine relationship with God. And then Michelle came and he says, you think you're a Christian, you

think you have a genuine relationship with God, but like the words that come out of your mouth, expose what's actually true about your heart. And he's going to continue that line of thinking today. And he's going to talk about the type of wisdom that we build our lives on. He's going to say, so you think you have a genuine relationship with God? Like let's, let's think about the type of wisdom that you build your life on. So that's kind of our, our review so that we're all on the same page for those of us that haven't been here. Let me pray. And then we will get into our specific text for the day. Father, we likely saying earlier today, need you. We need you more today than we need. We need you as much today as we've ever needed you. We need your Holy Spirit to be present in this room, active,

working in our life, drawing us to yourself. God, don't let us be deceived into believing that we have a genuine relationship with God. If it's just religion, don't let us settle for something less than the invitation of Jesus to follow him into abundant life. God, so often we settle for less than abundant life and we don't even realize it. Like we're just believing lies from the enemy, deceptions from the enemy that get us off track, help us today to see clearly what we're building our life on. And may we be a people that are building our life on wisdom that comes from above. May we be a people that follow God wherever he tells us to go. Even when it's difficult and challenging and goes against social norms and makes us feel uncomfortable. God, may we be willing to be obedient even when it's difficult. For your glory and for our

good. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, if you have your Bibles and you want to follow along, we're going to be in James chapter 3, starting in verse 13. As you turn there, I'd love to hear if anybody would be honest enough, transparent enough with the room to admit if they've ever been duped by an internet scam. Anybody ever given into an internet scam? A couple, not very many of you. I'm going to have my hand up. This happened to me recently. And it was a TikTok advertisement. For those of you in the room that are over 40, ask your kids about TikTok. It's not great. I'm not on TikTok anymore. But when I was on TikTok, I kept getting hit with this advertisement over and over and over again. I finally gave in and I clicked on it.

It was for an automatic tennis ball launcher. And Marissa and I, we have a sweet little Dalmatian rescue mixed dog. And she's obsessed with tennis balls. And we live far away. And she's got like this outdoor fence. She gets to let herself outside. But I was like, you know what? Like, it'd be really sweet if she had this thing that when we're not home, she can like play sex with herself. Like, that'd be great. And they kept hitting me with this advertisement. It was one of those like, normally $99.99. But today it's $14.99. And I should have known, right? Because like, it's never that good of a deal. And I'm a guy, I don't like deals. Like, I don't even use coupons because I'm like afraid of the feeling when you get to the cash register with a coupon. And you didn't read the fine print. And they're like, actually,

this coupon doesn't, anybody, does anybody else get anxiety around coupons? All right. So that's me. And I'm like, this can't, this is too good to be true. But it just kept, it was spilling my feed over and over and over again. And finally, I was like, I'm gonna, it's $15. Like, what can hurt? My dog's gonna be the happiest dog in the world. Well, I no longer have that $15. And my dog also does not have an automatic tennis ball launcher. I don't know. I don't know what happened. I thought I vetted the company out. I thought I did good research, but apparently I didn't. And I don't know about you, but I feel like this is becoming more and more of a problem on the internet that people are getting really good at deceiving purchasers. They're getting really good at making false claims. And

from now on, since I kind of learned that lesson by experience, I kind of have this checklist that I go through now. Or like, I check the web address, right? And you make sure there's no like weird like commas or apostrophes or dashes in the web address. Like, is it a legitimate web address? You know, there's not like a red exclamation point up in the box. And I'm like, okay, that's good. Then you read the entire description, make sure there's no weird like fine print. And then lastly, how many of you, how many of us are review readers? That's really where it comes down to, right? Like reading the reviews about other people that have used the product. And usually if you do all three of these things, you can have a pretty high success rate of not getting duped, of not

falling into a scam. And the reason I bring that up is because today in our text, James is going to say that there's ultimately two overarching ideologies, two overarching wisdoms that every single human being will build their life on. Like there's, there's no other choices. If you are a human, if you are alive, if you're watching online, listening in this room, if you're hearing my voice, there are two overarching wisdoms or ideologies that you will build your life on. And James is going to ask us to, he's going to say, first of all, one of them is genuine and it comes from God. And the other is a counterfeit that comes from the enemy. And he's going to ask us to really ask these diagnostic questions, to be honest with ourselves. Like, what are we building our lives on? Are we building our lives on genuine, true wisdom that comes from

God? Or are we like subtly, without realizing it, buying into this counterfeit wisdom that comes from the enemy? And so what I want to do with our time here is I want to run this kind of diagnostic test to make sure that we're not buying into the counterfeit thinking that it's the real thing. Like that there aren't areas of our life that we aren't living based on worldly wisdom, on this counterfeit wisdom that comes from the enemy. That we're not being duped into believing that we're following God's wisdom when in reality we've been discipled by the world, the flesh, and the enemy. So that's what we're going to do the rest of our time. We're just going to ask three diagnostic questions about the type of wisdom that we build our lives on. Are we building our lives on genuine wisdom that comes from above? And James is going to say that

this genuine wisdom that comes from God, it's characterized by humility and it results in peace. But there's a counterfeit wisdom that's characterized by selfish ambition and ultimately results in chaos. And we get kind of a peek behind the curtain in the book of Revelation, which I don't talk about very often because it's hard to understand. But in Revelation, there's like this peek behind the curtain where we kind of see what supernatural things are happening that are impacting our world. And the enemy, Satan, is depicted as like this massive, powerful dragon. And you would think like a dragon's a pretty thing good, a pretty strong thing to go into battle with, right? Like if you got to go into battle and you have a dragon, you're feeling pretty good about yourself. But then John says that ultimately the winner of the battle is a slain lamb. Right? And so there's this

depiction between like what the world thinks is powerful, like this big animal beast that breathes fire, like that should be the thing that wins. But ultimately, the thing that wins is a humble, sacrificial lamb that is slain. And this is the difference between the wisdom of God and the wisdom of the world. But far too often, there's subtle lies that the enemy tells to try and get us to believe his way of thinking that get us off track. So let's hop into the text and let James tell us rather than me trying to explain it. He says, if you are wise and understanding in God's ways, prove it by living an honorable life and doing good works with humility that come from wisdom. But if you are bitterly jealous and there is selfish ambition in your heart, do not cover up the truth. Don't lie with boasting. For

jealousy and selfishness are not God's kind of wisdom. Such things are earthly, unspiritual, and demonic. For wherever there is jealousy and selfish ambition, there you will find disorder and evil of every kind. But the wisdom that comes from above, God's wisdom is first of all pure. It also loves peace. It's gentle at all times, willing to yield to others. It's full of mercy and the fruit of good deeds. It shows no favoritism, and it is always sincere. And those who are peacemakers will plant seeds of peace and reap a harvest of righteousness. So James is comparing these two types of wisdom and the results that come from these two types of wisdom. And he's asking us to be honest with ourselves about the ways in which our life reflects that we're building our life on the counterfeit wisdom of the enemy

versus the genuine wisdom of God. And he starts out, most translations actually translate this first verse as a question. He says, how many of you are wise and understanding in God's ways? And the kind of response that most Christians would kind of naturally answer is like, well, yeah, I'm wise and understanding in God's ways. Like, I'm a Christian. I know God. I have a relationship with God. I'm wise and understanding in God's ways. Love James, right? And he's just not willing to let us get away with intellectual disarmament. He says, prove it. Like, you think you're wise and you're understanding. Prove it by living an honorable life, doing good works with humility that come from wisdom. He's ultimately saying for those math teachers in the room, show your work, right? Like, you can say all day long. You can show me the right answer all day long, but prove to me that you

know how to get there. Prove to me that you have a right relationship with God. And somehow in American Christianity, we've taken Christ's invitation to follow him and we've subtly turned it into an invitation to believe in him and to invite him into our hearts. And this is a distortion of the gospel of the kingdom of God. God's kingdom, James is going to tell us, is far less about intellectually agreeing with what God says, and it's far more about actually becoming more like Jesus. And I'm afraid that it's actually a tactic, a subtle tactic of the enemy to lure us away with information rather than intimacy with God. Like, the enemy is far happier with us filling our brains with knowledge about God that doesn't do anything to transform our hearts and to send us into our neighborhood to love our neighbor as ourself. Like, the enemy is great with

us having minds full of discipleship and knowing all of the right answers and all of the right Bible verses if it doesn't make us more like Jesus. And so James is saying it's great if you think that you're building your life on God's wisdom, but what does your behavior show? James is constantly asking us to evaluate our behaviors to make sure we aren't being subtly deceived. And this first diagnostic question he's going to ask is he's going to say, what is the source of the wisdom that you're building your life on? Where are you getting these ideas? Where are you getting these concepts that you believe and build your life on? And for all my type A-ers in the room, you're going to be excited about this message because James essentially is going to give us a chart. He's going to compare both types

of wisdom straight down the line. He's going to give us these three questions in a chart. And so I created a chart. It's going to be on the screen. It's going to be awesome for our type A-ers, our creative types. You know, just draw yourself a map or something. It'll be great while I'm talking. And so he says the first thing we need to consider is this question of what is the source and what are our options? And the thing is, like, in a world of social media and opinions all over the map, like, we could be tricked into believing that there's like a million different ideologies and options. And James is saying, like, if you boil it all down, like, if you get rid of all the bells and whistles, there's really two ideologies. There's two wisdoms. It goes all the way back to the garden. Like, God created

everything. And he said, I want you to be stewards of my creation. I want you to live in relationship with me and steward my creation. And then the enemy says, God doesn't want what's best for you. You should be your own God. You should get to decide what's right and wrong. And ultimately, this is the fork in the road. These are the two foundations of the wisdoms of this world. One says, there is a God. He's in control. He gets to tell me how things work. I am a steward of his resources. And the other says, I get to be God. I get to decide what's right and wrong. I get to choose for myself what is wise and what is not. These are the only two options. And Christians, we have to be daily aware that we have an enemy who is at war for our allegiance. He does not want us to be a steward

of God's creation. He wants us to look at God with anger and frustration in our hearts and say, I want to be God. I want to decide for myself what is right and wrong. And it's subtle and it's a counterfeit. It's just like those internet dupes, right? Like, like they don't create an entirely new business. They just take the legitimate business and make a fake version of it. The enemy isn't created. He doesn't create new truths. He takes God's truths and he counterfeits them, manipulates them, and distorts them. And so James is saying, there's two wisdoms. There's a godly wisdom and then there is a counterfeit wisdom. And because it's counterfeit and because the enemy is so creative, like we so easily, I'm so, I personally so easily find myself flipping into the ideologies of the enemy in the world and I allow it to control my life. I

stop being a steward of God's resources and I start saying, these things are mine. This is my kingdom to build. I can be successful. I can do all of these things apart from God. And I think it all kind of boils down to, the two ideologies kind of boil down to stewardship versus control. Like none of these things are mine. They're all a gift from God and I get to use them in relationship with him in the way that he's created them to work versus this stuff's mine. And I'm going to build my own kingdom for myself, but it happens subtly. I love how Tony Evans puts it. Tony Evans is a great pastor and teacher. And he says, wisdom is seeing and interpreting life from God's perspective and then making life decisions based on that understanding. Wisdom is seeing and interpreting life from God's perspective.

God created, he gave these good gifts and I'm going to make my life decisions based on those understanding. So there's this wisdom that comes from God that we should build our lives on. But instead, so often we give into this counterfeit wisdom and we see a theological concept that is all throughout Scripture. And I'm becoming more and more aware of as I study the Bible and theologians call it the unholy trinity. You'll hear it put the world, the flesh, and the devil. And these are kind of like the enemy's tactics in which he uses to get us off track. We see this in verse 15. He says, for jealousy and selfishness are not God's kind of wisdom. This is the other wisdom. This is the counterfeit wisdom. Such things are earthly, that's the world, the culture, unspiritual, our flesh, and the demonic.

And James is saying, these are the three prevailing, overarching ways that the enemy uses to get you to walk away from God's design and start following this other type of wisdom. First he says, the world, right? This is just the prevailing culture. The ideas that we hear on repeat, literally since the Tower of Babel. Like this has been happening for thousands and thousands of years. People got together and they said, we don't need God. We can build something apart from God that is better than God. Israel literally came to God and said, God, we're sick of you being in charge of things. We want a king like all of the other nations. This is the world. There's overarching worldly ideologies where we say we want to be in control. We should get to dictate what is right and wrong. So much of

the American culture is built on the self-identity. I get to choose for myself. This is the world. And then the flesh, right? The flesh is our natural temptations. I've heard it put our strongest desires. But our strongest desires are at war with our ultimate desires. Like we find in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 that God has placed eternity in our hearts, right? Like every human being has this ultimate desire to be loved and accepted and in right relationship with God. But in moments of weakness, the strongest desire that we have is I want to do this thing right now. And I don't care what God has to say about it. I want it. This is the flesh. And so James is saying a person who builds his life on God's wisdom is able to understand in the moment when he's being tempted, when he's being lured away, when he's being drawn away from godly

wisdom, he's able to say, yes, this might make me feel good in the moment, but it isn't what I ultimately want. And so I'm able to say no in the moment for what I want in the future. And lastly, demonic, the devil. Think about Christ's temptation in the wilderness. The enemy is coming to him in his time of most, what would seem like being his most weakness. And he's offering half-truths and empty promises. He's saying, I can give you everything that God wants to give you. When in reality, he can't. This is the battle that we have for wisdom. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 puts it this way, God has made the wisdom of this world look foolish since God in his wisdom saw to it that the world would never know him through human wisdom. He has used our foolish preaching to save those who believe.

So James is saying, pay attention to the source of your wisdom. What actually rules your life? The enemy is creatively counterfeiting the wisdom of God and trying to get us to move from being stewards of God's creation to controllers of God's creation. Are we regularly coming back to God for our definition of wisdom? Or are we being subtly discipled by the wisdom of this world, our fleshly desires, and the subtle lies of the enemy? Are we seeking to build God's kingdom or our own kingdom? Are we stewards or are we controllers?

That will dictate what the source of our wisdom truly is. Are we believing a wisdom that comes down from God or a counterfeit wisdom from the world, the flesh, and the enemy? That's the first diagnostic question that James wants us to ask. What is the source? Where do we go to for truth? Where do we go to for wisdom? Are we intentionally going to God and believing his wisdom even though it's foolishness to this world? Or are we subtly being discipled by the culture, our own selfish temptations, and these lies that the enemy tells us? Second question he asks, he goes, even more practical, which for those pragmatists in the room, you love James, because he's going to ask, okay, if you think that your wisdom is from God, then how do your behaviors reflect the type of wisdom you are building your life on? And he has two overarching behaviors

behaviors that go with each wisdom. There's one that goes with godly wisdom and one that goes with counterfeit wisdom. He says, the behavior that ultimately sums up all of godly wisdom is humility. Like humble sacrifice, the way of Jesus, the slain lamb versus the powerful dragon. He says, the way of God, the behaviors that follow the wisdom of God is humility. And the behaviors, the patterns that follow the wisdom of this world is selfish ambition. I'm going to get ahead. I'm going to do whatever I can to build my kingdom. James is saying, it's one thing to say that you're building your life on God's wisdom, but what do your behaviors say? And I think humility ultimately is relationship driven, right? Like humility moves at a slow pace. Humility is I'm going to look at others as more important than

myself. I'm going to seek to serve others in which, in whatever way I can. And selfish ambition is results driven. It's like, what, how can I, how can I use these people to get ahead? How can these people become resources for me to get what I want? In what ways might these people be obstacles in my way to keep me from getting the thing that I want? And this is the subtle lie between godly wisdom and worldly wisdom. Worldly wisdom says, I'm, I'm going to do whatever I can to get the result that I want. And godly wisdom says, God's going to work it all out. I just get to trust him and be a steward of the things that he has put in front of me. I get to focus on the relationships that I have access to.

I get to prioritize other people. I get to follow the way of Jesus and humbly serve. God's wisdom moves at the pace of relationships. Worldly wisdom moves far too fast to prioritize your neighbor. I had this the other day, this guy that was at a church in Pennsylvania messaged me. He's struggling financially and he needed some help and he was just asking me for some, some things and hadn't heard from him in years. I'm like, my natural fleshly desire is like, dude, like you haven't talked to me in years. Like you're just, you're just, you know, you're, you're struggling right now. And all of a sudden you're reaching out and I've got stuff going on. My life's busy. You're in my way. And I'm preparing for the sermon. And I'm like, oh, great. This is awesome. This guy, my flesh, the, the wisdom of the

world says like, dude, like you've done nothing for me. Like you haven't stayed in contact with me. You don't care about me. You're literally only calling me because you're in a, you're in a tight spot and you need some help. The way of Jesus is this person, this creation of God in the image of God is in front of me. And I have an opportunity to steward the resources that I've been given to serve him the way that Jesus has served me. Like that's an incredible opportunity to follow the way of Jesus, to believe the wisdom of God. But man, I'm so disciple into the wisdom of this world. And I'm like, no man, like I've got, I've got my own stuff going on. Humility, godly wisdom moves at the pace of relationships. Humility, this word, I love it. It comes from, in this culture, it comes from the

word they would use when a wild horse was broken, when it was submitted to its owner, right? Like if you think about a wild horse, how much power and potential does a wild horse have? Like how much, how much work can a wild horse get done? A lot. But not if it's not submitted, right? If a wild horse is left to its own devices, he's going to do whatever he can for himself and only himself. But this word, this humble meekness is like, no, like there's power and potential in me, but it's most, it's most used for good when it's submitted to the master, when it's submitted to the creator. And as individuals, we have an immense amount of power and potential, but if that power and potential is not submitted to God, it will seek its own way. And it will cause an immense amount of damage in its wake.

Proverbs says, there's a way that seems right to a man, but in the end, it leads to destruction. This is what happens when we try and rule our lives apart from submission and humility under the way of Jesus. We know this. Like you can look back on your life. If you're honest with yourself, if I gave you enough time, if we turn the lights off and you close your eyes, I said, think about the times that were most relational turmoil, most difficulty in your work and difficulty in your marriage and difficulty in your relationships. And if you are honest with yourself, most of the time, the source of that chaos and difficulty in your life would be you in the moment, choosing what was best for you and not caring or thinking about what God would want you to do or what would be best for the other

people in the room. It was just about you. Selfish ambition creates chaos and it leaves a wake of emotional damage behind you. Humility and sacrificial love creates peace. It is the way of Jesus. It is the wisdom that comes from above. Humility, broken power submitted under the Lordship of Jesus. And he gives a list of other behaviors that kind of flow out of humility. He says purity, right? Like genuine, you're genuine and transparent. You love truth. Even when that truth might make you look more, might make your sin look more evident. Like, like if you're just a steward of God's creation, submitted to the Lordship of Jesus, a broken sinner and shining a light on truth is going to make people see how messed up you really are. If you're humble, you're like, yeah, I'm messed up. I'm broken.

I'm fallen. I don't have to hide or manipulate or use religion to make myself feel better and to make you feel worse. Like purity, genuine transparency. We love truth. But if our lives are built on selfish ambition, on building our own kingdom, then when people start to see truth about us, we do anything in our power to hide, to manipulate people's perception of what they might think about us. James is saying, no, true humility is purity. It loves truth. It's peaceful. Again, in America, we love table-flipping Jesus, but we don't often talk about turn the other cheek Jesus. Like it's kind of ingrained in us as Americans, at least the type of America that I grew up in, that like somebody punches, you punch back. The way of Jesus' humble sacrifice is somebody punches, and you look for ways to serve. You

de-escalate the situation with humble sacrifice, with peace-loving. A life ruled by godly wisdom prioritizes relationships that result in peace. It's gentle. Not that you're a doormat, that you let people walk all over you, but you're considerate and understanding of other people. You sit and listen. I listened to a podcast this week of an African-American musician who has single-handedly taken the hoods of like 65 Klansmen. And he said the thing that he did, he just listened. Just sat across the table and listened. And he thought their ideas were ridiculous. He hated everything about their ideology, the wisdom that was ruling their life. He didn't let them abuse him, but he was gentle, and he listened, and he engaged them in relationship. And because he treated them with respect, they listened to what he had to say, and he was able to speak truth into their life. Humble sacrifice is gentle. It's

submissive and merciful, willing to extend forgiveness. Why? Because forgiveness has been extended to us. Ultimately, it's sincere. It's genuine. It's not hypocritical, and it does not show favoritism. James is asking us to be honest about the type of behaviors that are consistently running our lives. Are we humble stewards, or are we selfish controllers? Let me give a few examples of behavior that come out of selfish ambition? And the word ultimately there, so he says, selfish ambition, when you have selfish ambition, you'll cover up the truth with boasting and lying. And the word there is literally a professional spinner. Like, it became, it came to be known about their politicians in this culture. He's saying when you're, when you're building your life with your own power and your own strength, you become a professional spinner. You lie and manipulate the truth in

order to get ahead. And when we're, our lives are built on selfish ambition, we will lie and cheat and spin and cover up and gossip to get ahead. We all do it. We see this in children, right? How many of you guys hang out with little kids and like you catch them in a blatant spin? And you're like, did you do that? What's their, most often their natural reaction? Lie, chill, cheat, spin it, cover it up. And they're creative about how they spin it. Like, it's like in our flesh, we're good at covering things up. We're good at like, not really lying, but lying. And this is what we do when our lives are ruled by the counterfeit wisdom. We lie, cheat, spin, cover up. We gossip. We do whatever we can to get ahead. And James is saying the types of behavior that

comes out of this are jealousy. We're constantly finding our value in how we compare to other people. We're constantly looking around and saying, how does my life measure up to their life? How does my success and work measure up to their success and work? How does my marriage measure up to their marriage? How might I find ways in which I am better than they are so that I feel good about the kingdom and the empire that I am building? Jealousy, lying. We lie to ourselves and we lie to others to create a false image. And then he just lumps everything up. I love it. He just gives it an umbrella term. He says, and then evil of every kind. This type of counterfeit wisdom makes us desperate. Like, people become resources that we use and abuse to get what we want. Or we view them as obstacles that

are in the way of us getting what we want. And we'll do anything. We'll use them in any way to get success. I think about the illustration of like when you're drowning, right? And you and somebody else, you're drowning together. What's like the natural carnal reaction? You're like pushing that person down to hold yourself up. And that's what happens when our lives are ruled by this worldly wisdom that we're in control, that we have to build this thing, that it's our stuff and we have to keep it and we have to build it. We'll do anything we can. Evil of every kind. Manipulation, lying, stealing, gossiping, slander, whatever it takes to tear other people down to build our own idea and kingdom up. Think about Cain and Abel. Like, the wisdom of, the counterfeit wisdom of the enemy entered in the garden. Genesis chapter

three, right? When Satan came and he lied to Adam and Eve. And like, it took like 30 years of this wisdom being prevalent in creation. And we have the first murder. Evil of every kind comes out of living your life in worldly wisdom. Cain had a situation between him and God. But instead of dealing with his relationship with God, he looked at other people and he said, how can I fill that void that I have with God by building my own kingdom and my own empire? And he said, my brother, my brother's in the way. He's keeping me from having a successful kingdom, a successful empire. So I'm going to murder him in order to build up my own empire. This is what happens when we're not viewing ourselves as stewards of God's creation, but controllers of our own empire. In what ways do your actions

demonstrate that you are living according to counterfeit wisdom? Do you ever view other people as obstacles that are in the way? Do you ever view other people as resources that you can use to get ahead, to get to that next step, to that next place in life? And how often do we just view everybody around us as individuals created in the image of God? People that we can love and serve the way that Jesus has loved and served us. Most of us in this room who claim to be Christians, we probably aren't in a place where we would say, you know what, I just constantly give in to counterfeit wisdom. All I do is believe the wisdom of this world and I'm selfish and I do all of these things all of the time. But if we think about our relationships and the responsibilities that we have at home and

that work, in what ways are we subtly shifting from being a steward of God's kingdom to a controller of our own kingdom? In what ways is our life more marked by selfish ambition rather than humble love? James goes on. The last question he gives us to think about, he says, what is the result of your wisdom? And I think this is really the best diagnostic question we can use when we're being honest with ourselves about the type of wisdom that we're building our lives on? Because he's going to say, the wisdom that comes from God produces peace. And wisdom that comes from this counterfeit, the world, the flesh, and the devil, it produces chaos. And although the lie between godly wisdom and worldly wisdom are very subtle, there's little tweaks here and there, the results are polar opposites. Like you play this thing out to the very end

and ultimately a life built on humble sacrificial love, it will produce peace. And a life built on selfish ambition. I'm going to control the resources that I have. I'm going to do everything I can to build my kingdom. It will result in chaos. I think the best illustration for this in Scripture is Paul's conversion, right? Like Paul was this leader in the church. Like he believed in the God of Israel with all of his heart. He was like so passionate about, about like God and the things of God. But what was the result in his life? Anger, violence, chaos, and murder. Like he was like, I have to build God's kingdom. I have to do everything I can to protect Israel from this Messiah, this false Messiah who thinks he's Jesus. I am in control. I have to build this empire. And it led

this man of God who was supposed to be literally like a priest for the people of God. It led him to murder Christians because he had to be in control. But the moment that he meets Jesus, everything flips upside down. It goes from selfish ambition to humility. It goes from anger and violence to literally laying down his life, being beaten and stoned for the way of Jesus. chaos versus peace. Like you might look at Paul's life and say, yeah, but like it's not really going well for him. He's getting stoned. He's getting beaten. He's getting, all of these negative things are happening to him, but he has peace all around him because he switched from saying, I'm in control. I have to keep a hold of this thing. I have to build this thing up on my own. It's in no way.

God's in control. I'm just a steward of his resources. I'm going to have peace in whatever situation that this leads me in. Godly wisdom leads to a peace that passes understanding. This isn't a prosperity message that if you build your life on godly wisdom, everything goes your way.

But if you build your life on godly wisdom, even when trials and temptations come, when the wind blows and the storms rage, we can just open-handedly say, God, this is your stuff. My family is your family. My spouse is yours. He's yours. My job, like my recess, like all of this is yours. You're in control and you're going to have to do something about this. I'm just going to trust you. But if you're building your life on counterfeit wisdom, when the winds come and the trials and temptations come your way, you're literally doing evil of every kind to try and make sure that nobody gets in your way. Godly wisdom leads to a peace that passes understanding. Counterfeit wisdom leads to stealing, killing, and destroying to get ahead. Are we seeking to be stewards of God's

kingdoms or controllers? I think this, literally, this diagnostic question is probably going to be the most helpful for us to figure out where we're building our lives. Look around the circumstances of your life. Look around your workplace, your marriage, your relationships. Is there peace or is there chaos?

And ultimately, like this, again, this isn't to condemn. This is just to allow you to be honest with yourself so you can move forward in truth, that you can move forward in life. If your answer is chaos, then you're probably trying to grip things too tightly. You're probably trying to control a life. A life that can't be controlled. Probably has tight fists around your resources and your opportunities when God's just saying, it's my stuff. Just trust me. Just be obedient. Just follow the way of Jesus.

So as we end, I kind of want to look at this invitation of Jesus to follow him in message chapter 11. Somebody pointed this out in a sermon that I was listening to this week about this passage. I thought it was so incredible and so, such a powerful way for us to end this morning. Many of you are familiar with this invitation of Jesus. He says, come to me, all of you who are weary and burdened. All of you who have chaos in your life, come to me. Take my yoke upon you. Learn from me. Follow me. Why? This is so, so impactful to me as I study this passage this week. Why is yoking yourself to Jesus, following Jesus, coming to Jesus, why does it present rest for the weary? Is it because Jesus is

a victorious king who conquers everything? Is it because he's a powerful creator who is in charge of everything? Is it because, is it because God is this magnificent, awesome, amazing, powerful creature? No. He says, come to me, take up my yoke and you will have peace. Why? For I am gentle and humble in heart. Jesus says the key to a restful life, the key to an abundant life, the key to all of this is humility. The way of Jesus is humble sacrifice, putting other people above yourself, stewarding the creation as if it's not yours, but if it's God's. This is what Jesus did perfectly on our behalf. He stepped down into creation. He lived a life of perfect submission to God, of humble sacrifice. And this is why when we look at Revelation, the victorious winner of the entire thing is not a powerful dragon breathing fire, but it is a lamb who was slain. This is the way of Jesus. This is humble sacrifice.

Because I think far too often as Christians who want to see God's kingdom built with good intentions, we get discipled into the ideology of this world and we say, let's build God's kingdom with the ideas of this world. I was listening to a pastor talk about his dad was a pastor of a megachurch and he said, we had this culture where we just worked our tails off all day, every day. We just wanted to build the kingdom of God so much. We said, we used to say all the time that Satan never takes a day off, so we shouldn't either. He said, as I listened to these people say this thing, I thought, wait, doesn't he lose in the end? So why would we copy his behavior when we're building the kingdom of God? Why would we

work the way that the world works when we're trying to build an upside down kingdom? We're never going to win if we're close-fisted, taking control and working with power. The way that we win, the way that we have rest is we follow the example of Jesus. We yoke ourselves to him side by side. That's this idea of a yoke. We're in it with Jesus side by side. Why? Because he is gentle and humble in heart for his yoke is easy. His burden is light. See, when we're just stewarding God's stuff and the results are in his hand, life gets a lot easier. Doesn't mean we don't have problems. Doesn't mean we don't have difficulties. There's still a yoke. It's just light. This is the invitation that Jesus extends to you and to me. Not that we learn a lot of information about him, but that we yoke ourselves to him because

he's gentle and humble in heart. When we follow the way of Jesus, the result will be a peace that passes on your side. We choose humble love over selfish ambition. We choose to build God's kingdom rather than our own, and the result will be peace. So, let's be honest with ourselves this morning. In what ways has the enemy's counterfeit wisdom creeped into our way of living? How are we allowing ourselves to be discipled by the wisdom of the world, the desires of our flesh, and the subtle lies of the enemy around us? How do our actions and reactions demonstrate selfish ambition more than humility? And how might, this is the most important question, how might daily yoking ourselves to Jesus help us reframe our life around the wisdom of God? My prayer for all of us this morning is that

God would make us aware of the areas of our life that we're following the wisdom of the world, and that we would daily submit those areas of our life to the way of Jesus, which leads to humility, sacrificial love, and peace, one step at a time. Like, if God revealed every area of your life in which you are living based on worldly wisdom, you would be crippled, and you wouldn't be able to do anything. But my prayer and my hope is that he's revealing just one or two things to you this morning that you can bring to him daily, submitting to him, becoming more like Jesus every single day. As we wrap up at the beginning of the book of James, he says, if any of you lacks wisdom, just let him ask God who gives generously. So I thought, what better way for us to end this morning

than to just ask God to reveal to us the ways in which we're building our life on a counterfeit wisdom, and to show us what it truly looks like, to build our life on the wisdom of God, humble, sacrificial love, the way of Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for glimpses of truth throughout the week that break us up and make us see how easy it is for us to subtly give in to, be discipled by the wisdom of this world, our own sinful desires, and the temptations and lies of the enemy. God, today I pray that you have made us aware of areas in which we're being discipled by the way of the world. Help us to just be honest with you about those things. Maybe find somebody in our community that we can be honest with and confess.

Just move towards you in relationship. Yoke ourselves to you more and more each day. Because your burden, your burden is light. Your yoke is easy. Your burden is light. God, we lack wisdom. We lack understanding. I pray this morning that you give us wisdom, that you give us understanding to see what it would look like to really build our life on the wisdom that comes from above. Humble, sacrificial, and peace, love. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.
