Sabbath Principles
2022-08-29
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2gSZyWrP3cc

I absolutely love the combined worship team leading us into his presence. It is so much easier to preach when everyone's already in the presence of God. I mean, we all are all the time, but we're not always aware of it. Second thing I'm learning to really love about Canvas is you guys aren't afraid to sit in the front row. It's awesome. Churches never grow from the back forward. They grow from the front back. So, praise the Lord. I have to apologize to Grace today, Grace Community Church. So, about 20 years ago, the Lord, through a school of hard knocks, laid a message on my heart, and he was very clear and asked me to share it with his bride. And it's one of the few messages where I've repeated it over and over and over and over and over again.

I've preached it in many, many, many, many contexts. And, Grace folks, if you were here, you heard this message. I apologize. Now, I am in good company. If I say Matthew 5 through Matthew 7, what's that section of Scripture? Okay, great. If I say Luke 6, 17 following, what's that section? I've got one person to say it. Say it louder. Yeah, Sermon on the Plain. Yeah, Sermon on the Plain. If you look at the Luke passage, it's parallel to the Matthew passage. And there are some commentators who do all kinds of gymnastics trying to figure out how to reconcile the two. Because in Matthew, blessed are the poor in spirit. In Luke, blessed are the poor. In Matthew, blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. And in Luke, blessed are those who hunger and thirst.

Different contexts. And so, they try to harmonize and reconcile. I think it's really simple. Jesus gave a really good message and he used it again. Two different contexts. Sermon on the Mount, Sermon on the Plain. And so, Canvas, this will be a message primarily for you. Most of Grace have heard it. But if it's good, if it's a worthwhile message, we can all hear it more than once. Okay. So, yay. Here's a picture of me and my family about 20 years and 20 pounds ago. We went from child three to four under four in less than four years. The African-American boy was a foster child that we had for about four years. Now, I don't know about you guys, but neither Lori or I have a single artistic bone in our body. I can't draw a straight line.

When I write, you'll never see me do penmanship because I look like a three-year-old. So, if I have to, I print. But if I can, I type. And my wife said, but my children have never met an art project they didn't love. And when you have four children who are all doing art projects, it does create a bit of a crisis in one particular room in your house. You all know what I'm talking about. When you get all these pieces of art, where do you put them? There we go. Which works great. And you have about 30 of them. And you only have 10 magnets. And every time you close the refrigerator, all of it falls. And you get down, you've got to pick it all up and put it back up. Well, my wife came up with a brilliant idea.

See, when we had Tevi, he was getting so big and so heavy to carry up and down the stairs. And he had this small little 1,100-square-foot house. It was actually a duplex. And so we decided to finish off between the garage and the house, the kitchen. We just kind of finished off that square. And we had a dining room. And we had a tiny little bedroom for Tevi. So we didn't have to carry him up and down the stairs. We had a tiny little office for me so that I could actually get some work done at home. I was church planting at the time. And we didn't have an office. So that was my office and four little kids. It is hard to work from home. Challenging. Well, one day, she decided to take all those pieces of art and she carved them out into the garage where we had this unfinished, ugly wall.

We had to put more drywall up on it because it had to be a firewall between where you live and where the garage is. And I was sick and tired of mudding and doing it wrong. And so it didn't look pretty. But she divided it into four sections and she put all the kids' artwork out on the garage. They all had their own art gallery in the garage. And when they got up in the morning, she led them all outside. And, Josiah, here's your art gallery. Ooh, you're now a chapter. Me too, me too. And so they all got to see their art. And then she said, now, you can choose one special piece of art. And that goes on the refrigerator. You can choose any one you want. But only one. And that got me thinking.

God actually loves art. He's a pretty amazing creator. And so what goes on God's refrigerator? Don't answer too quickly. The Bible does tell us, by the way. It tells us.

So what goes on God's refrigerator? I've had the privilege of traveling much of the world. Our earth is huge. If you've ever been on a plane going all the way around, you'll have like a sore back because it takes forever. Unless you're, my brother, my brother travels to India a lot for his company. And we would commiserate because I travel to India a lot. And we commiserate about the flights. And at one point, the light went on for him because he flew first class. And also he goes, you mean you fly back there? It's a whole new context. Our world is huge. And it's huge with amazing places. How many have ever been to the Grand Canyon? Unbelievable. My favorite cartoon is Ziggy standing right on the edge of the Grand Canyons clapping and saying,

Go, go! How many have been to Niagara Falls? Ah, used to see Vic Falls. Two and a half times higher. Ten times broader. It literally takes 30 minutes to walk from one side to the other to see the whole thing. Unless you're in a plane, you can't see it. I mean, it's huge. It's the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe on the Zambesi River. It flattens out. Unbelievable. I mean, could that go there? So many amazing places. But the reality is that while the Earth is really cool, there's a lot of other really cool things. There we go.

Jupiter is about the size of a bowling ball compared to the Earth, which is the size of a pea. But if we go to the next slide, if we go to the next slide, there we go. Here, Jupiter is now the pea in comparison to our sun. And by the way, the Earth is just, it's like slightly above a pixel. But you do realize that our sun, while as huge as it is, as mammoth as it is, is actually a really small star. And here, if you go out tonight, and if it's a clear night, you're in the northern hemisphere, and you look out, and you see the brightest star in the northern hemisphere, it's Arcturus. Because Arcturus is the size of a bowling ball compared to our sun, which is the pea. And Jupiter is just a pixel.

I mean, one star. But, by the way, just because it's the brightest star doesn't mean it's the biggest star. It's actually not that big of a star in the whole galaxy, because it just happens to be closer than a lot of other ones. Here's Arcturus, which is a hyper star. And in this context, now, that Antares is just the pea to the bowling ball that's Antares. It's kind of hard to get that picture in my mind. And so, someone superimposed the orbit of Jupiter. Jupiter is the fifth planet out over the size of the star of Antares. And so, if you stand on the Earth, and you look out, and you see Jupiter way out there, and you could follow it for however long it takes, all the way around the sun, that would be the bold, stiff line out there, and the rest of it is actually the one star that it's superimposed on. Unbelievable. It begs the question, in God's massive creation, what goes on his research record? What does he call special?

By the way, this one's new for you, Grace, you haven't seen this slide, because now that the Webb, is it Webb? James Webb Telescope? Is that right? Now that it's out, because all those other ones were, like this is, a lot of these are the Hubble. They now realize that that Antares, that's the size of Jupiter's orbit, is just like a small one compared to other stars we're finding. And so, what goes on God's refrigerator? The Hubble Telescope, some 20 years ago, decided to point its telescope at the darkest spot in the night sky, and its field of view was, and if you can see that little red circle, a circle the size of a dime, held a football field away, and all you see pointed at the darkest spot in the night sky, and all you see is through that one little hole, and here's the picture that they came up with.

And the amazing thing is, that those aren't stars, those four are galaxies. I mean, our universe is unbelievably expansive. God is unbelievably creative. Someone estimated that there were this number, stars, and the number doesn't even sit on the slide. I don't even know what that number is. Usually, I show it, and some mathematicians in the congregation, they yell out what the number is. But before you do it, now that we have the Webb Telescope, we realize that actually, we estimate it wrong. There's at least 1,000% more stars than even that. Factor of 10. And by the way, in 30 years, if the Lord carries, they're going to come up with another telescope, and they're going to realize it's even less than that. And God actually named every one of them. I mean, I've got four kids, and I can't keep up with them sometimes.

You know, Cassie, guys, whatever your name is, son, go there. And so the question begs, what goes on God's refrigerator? There is a Hebrew word for special. We don't usually translate it special. We translate it holy. But you do know that holy means set apart. That we think of holy as ethically pure, and it is that. We're ethically pure, holy, ethically pure, because we're set apart. There are vessels in the temple, in the old temple, in Solomon's temple, that were holy bowls. They weren't more ethically pure than the bowl that's in my kitchen sink. But they're special. They're set apart. And so when God finishes all of this amazing creation, the very first thing he calls holy is actually not a thing at all. But it was Sabbath, the seventh day. Abraham Heschel says that God created his sanctuary not in place, but in time.

But God uniquely set apart time. And I want to unpack that in Genesis. But before I do, just so many of you don't know me, I'm going to talk about Sabbath. But I don't want to come at it from a legalistic perspective. I don't care if you think you can go to a restaurant on Sabbath or not, or if you think you can drive or not, or if you think it's Saturday or Sunday or Tuesday. But God, in his fabric of creation, created this rhythm of regular time and special time. And when he calls something special, something holy first, the first thing he calls holy is, in fact, Sabbath. In fact, there is no thing called holy in the Old Testament until the golden calf. It's almost as though the qualification of things is an accommodation to you and I who are so into thinghood.

If you look at Latin, the word for thing is res, where we get our word reality. You know, our reality is based in thinghood. It's how we think. It's how we function. But in Hebrew, there's actually no word for thing. Now, some will argue the bar, but the bar is not thing like object. It's not thing like object. And I'm not a Hebrew scholar, but Abraham Heschel is, and that's where I found it out. God has set aside time. You know, if you look at Genesis, I know a lot of people want to really spend some time on Genesis, talking about, you know, young earth, old earth, what is it? I've met people for whom that's a litmus test of your salvation. It's not for me. But it is fascinating that the whole structure of Genesis chapter 1 through, well, the first creation,

the creation account, Genesis 1, 1 through Genesis 2, verse 3, is actually comprised of seven sections. The first sentence in that passage, that section, seven words. The second sentence, 14 words, multiple of seven. In fact, every major word in that whole passage, words like God and earth and heaven and light, show up in multiples of seven. You know, so I think we often don't realize it because we're such a written culture. And really, in two of the Gutenberg Bible, there weren't a lot of written primary cultures. There were oral cultures. And even though you had writing, you didn't read it. It was read to you. You heard it. And so much of the Old Testament is written in ways that actually allow you to understand the entirety. And in the forming of it, it emphasizes the things that it wants you to understand.

It's really interesting. The final section of this whole creation story, the seventh section, which is the climax of it, has three sentences. And each sentence has seven words. And the middle word for each one of those three sentences is seventh day. There was a debate among Jewish scholars way back when, when they were still using berry juice on papyra. And they were writing back and forth and arguing about what does Genesis 2, 2 really mean? Because the actual language, and a lot of our translations try to, try to make it understandable. And they missed the point that these scholars were arguing. Because what it actually says is, on the seventh day, God finished all that he had created. And the argument was, well, if he finished everything he had created on the seventh day, what did he create on the seventh day?

Because if he created everything in six days, they would have asked, he finished on the sixth day. But that's not what it says. What it says is, he finished all that he had created on the seventh day. And they would argue back and forth, what is it that God created? Until finally, Rabbi Rossi in the Medina said, quote, After six days, what did the universe still lack? Manukah. Tranquility. Came Sabbath. Came tranquility. And the universe was complete. In other words, that the climax of the creation story all points to this act of God who did not just rest on the seventh day, folks. He created rest. And then he stepped into it. You know, it's so embedded in the fabric of creation that a multitude of cultures who were disparate, had no connection to the word of God, were in different continents, had no connection between themselves, all landed on a seven-day week.

Isn't that amazing? You can look at them. The Babylonians, the Egyptians, the Persians, the Indians, the Chinese, the Mongols, the Malays, the Germans, the Greeks, and even the Native Americans, all landed on a seven-day. Now, there are some cultures that did a four-day and a five-day and a six-day and a ten-day, but none of those lasted. They all landed on what was revealed in the very fabric of creation. This rhythm of work, work, work, work, work, work, on a rest. In fact, even the creation act of each day included almost a Sabbath within it, but the Sabbath was always the beginning place, because remember that it was evening and then morning on the first day. It's almost as though God said it was important to start with this sense of Sabbath, this sense of rest, this qualitatively different time that's created for a very specific purpose.

And he's created because he loves you and wants to spend time with you, and so he says, I want to spend time with you all the time, but here's a special bucket of time. And I long for it.

You know, the worst, so I've preached this message to probably thousands of pastors. I was part of the seminary, or being in a program, the seminary is four pastors. Then we took it overseas, India, Philippines, Nepal, Uganda, Kenya. And every pastor, except your place, they're like salivating, because they definitely want rest. And yet, they are the worst Sabbath violators I've ever found. So here's a question, church. And by the way, kudos to Candace for giving Ryan a month of Sabbath. Kudos. I mean, way to go. So, which of the other Ten Commandments would you be okay with your pastor violating on a regular basis? Well, you know, I don't murder as much as I used to. I've really worked with the adultery thing, and I'm getting better. I mean, last year I stoned a lot.

I only stoned a little this year. Why is it in this culture where it's a culture of busy? We run, run, run. All of you probably have to-do lists. How many of you have a to-don't list? I think we desperately need to begin to... You've heard the old story about putting rocks in the bowl? Shake your head at me, or shake your head not. No? Okay, so those, some of you have heard, some of you haven't. So this guy gets up, he puts a bunch of rocks in a bowl, and it fills it up to the top. He says, this bowl? Yeah, you did. Okay. I won't do it then. Most people have heard it. If you haven't, see me afterwards. It's a really cool story.

The creation itself is a story of God taking chaos to tranquility and doing it by the creation of a qualitatively different kind of time that he sets apart and he calls holy to be with you. You know, I'm not going to do it today, but in the Gospel of Mark, you see Jesus, he's called the bounding lion in the Gospel of Mark because he gets so much done. I mean, he's so active. All these active verbs, the word immediately over and over and over again. And yet, in every chapter, in the first ten chapters, what you find is not Jesus going to do ministry, but Jesus going to try to get alone with the Father. And ministry comes and finds him. And he goes down by the lake. He goes down by the lake again.

He goes up. Let's go across the lake. He goes up on the mountain. He even leaves the country at one point. And every time he's trying to get alone with the Father, ministry comes and finds him. And he has this incredible power to accomplish the ministry that God's called him to do. And then he runs to the Father. We sang it today. Running to your arms. The question I had was, do we do it? Do we do it? Jesus was so powerful because he valued. And by the way, he struggled with Sabbath too. It's why you see so many different strategies to be used. But he refused to not do it. So, ministry will find you. Work will find you. Activity will find you. The question is, have you built the guardrails like Nehemiah did around Jerusalem when he was reestablishing Sabbath?

Use the guardrails. Just say, you know what? No. You know, on my calendar, I'll actually put God time. And then people will ask, oh, you're free at this time. Nope, I'm busy. No one wants to look at my phone and make sure, you know, are you really busy? I mean, that's psychoscent. They just believe you. Because we put the big rocks in first. The time alone with God. Okay, what I'd like to do is just go through fairly quickly ten principles of Sabbath that you find in the Old Testament and try to apply them to our life. Think of this more as a buffet. Every time you go to, I mean, going to a buffet, if you like it, you go back. You end up trying just about everything on the buffet, but you don't eat it all on one day.

So, if you take all ten of these principles and you say, oh, I've got to do it because I'm legalistic about it, it's actually going to become a burden rather than a rest. Abraham Herschel said that Sabbath was intended to mend our tattered lives. To renew us, to refresh us. So, number one, do no regular work. I used to, when I was pastoring, we heated our house with a wood-burning furnace, and my favorite Sabbath activity was chopping wood. Because it was not regular work. My regular work was just sitting on my butt. Or, here's one, going out to lunch with someone, sitting on my butt. And so, being able to get up and chop wood, there is this rhythm. Number two, Exodus 31, 15, rest. Rest, a time to mend our tattered lives. You know, it's interesting, in Exodus 33, God says this.

He says to Moses and the people of Israel, My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. I find it fascinating that when God speaks about His presence, He includes the concept of rest. Isn't that what Jesus said? Come unto me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, I'll give you what? Rest. I've got to tell you. So, I say that I came by this the hard way, because when I was a young believer, someone preached a message that I respected the guy, and basically saying that we're no longer bound to Sabbath, and he was preaching against the legalistic thing, and I understand that, I agree with him on that, but because of that, I jettisoned the whole concept of Sabbath. And it was 20 years later that I found out from a medical doctor that that can actually screw with your adrenal gland really bad.

And in fact, you can get away with it for a long time until your adrenal gland gets so depleted that now you're depleted. It's kind of like, you know, you can run your car for 50,000 miles without changing the oil. No problem. It's that 50,000 and one mile that becomes a problem. And then once the car seizes up, that car's done. And so there is this rhythm of, Jesus says, my sheep come in, and they go out. They come in, and they go out. God says, my presence will go with you, and in my presence you will receive rest. Here's one that I love. Prepare ahead of time. You find it in the Gospels. It's about the day of preparation. And the day of preparation came from this passage. It was just a concept that every good Jew understood in order to do the Sabbath.

You didn't start the Sabbath on the day of the Sabbath. You started it ahead of time to prepare. I remember we had a couple with six kids, and every Sunday they would come, and the kids were all dressed nice, and they were well-behaved, and they were happy, and everything was good. And finally, someone said to her, she said, how do you do that? How do you get your kids ready on Sunday morning to come like this? You're never late. She said, oh, I don't. We get ready on Saturday night. We do our baths. We lay out our clothes. We go to bed early. We have our day of preparation so that we can actually enjoy our time of Sabbath.

This is where, you know, Nehemiah put the guards around. So, here's a good one. So, the word decide. I don't know how many of us actually are deceived, thinking that freedom is about more choices. Folks, freedom is not about more choices. Just take a little three-year-old that's learning to run and put them out in the backyard with no fence. They're not free. I mean, you're, like, staring them down because they don't know where they can and where they can't go. But you put up, like, a little fence? We got toddlers back there in a room, padded floor, and they're free because the door's closed. And they can't run out in the hallway and some, you know, creep pick them up. They're free. My marriage, man, I am so free in my marriage because I've eliminated all other options.

There's only one. And it's lifelong. You know, the word decide, we often think decide is choosing from all these options. The word decide, think of what else is in the entomology, the word family of decide. Insecticide, suicide, pesticide, genocide, genocide, homicide. They're all about eliminating. They're not about adding, but they're about eliminating. And to embrace the rest that God gives us. What did Jesus say? Man was not made for the Sabbath. The Sabbath was made for you. It's God's time of intimacy in his holy sanctuary that he wants to spend with you. He's nuts about you. And yet we get so, do you know, with Jesus, almost every emotion that humans experience, not all, but most of them, you show up in Jesus. He does it appropriately. He gets angry, but he does it for the right reason.

Handles it the right way. He gets frustrated. But again, he handles it well. He teaches with it. Do you know you never find Jesus hurried? I mean, even when he was going to Jerusalem to die for all humankind, all the time, at one moment, the most important thing he could do, some blind guy yelling out and everyone saying, hey, leave him alone. Can you tell he's busy? He stopped. And he took time. Jesus was, does anyone here think that they have more to accomplish than Jesus did in the three and a half years that he had to have a ministry? I think that makes the point. Because I hope so. Because, you know, God, folks, God might like your ministry, but he loves you. One of the reasons I'm bringing this message is because, should the Lord lead us to merge, it's going to be an all-hands-on-deck deal.

I mean, there's going to be a lot to do. Ryan and I have been running nuts. Your boards have been running nuts. Because there's a lot to do. You know, usually when it looks like there's no problems, it's because someone has been handling the problems all the way along. There's usually a ton of work going on, and you only know about it when they fail to do it. And then everyone sees it. It's going to be the same way. You know, God does not have a mission for our church. I'm sorry, does not have a, yeah, does not have a mission for our church. He has a church for his mission. But God is on mission. And he's calling us to be on mission with him. And the act of joining together is going to require all-hands-on-deck a lot of work, a lot of time.

But here's the deal, folks. Don't ever let the ministry of God rob you from the intimacy that God wants to spend with you. Take your Sabbath first. I don't care if it's, I mean, for me, it's not Sunday. You know, no pastor can Sabbath on Sunday. You just can't. I mean, just one Sunday morning is like four days of work. You know, I've told people that I actually love football. And I think I love football because the games usually happen on Sunday after church. And when I go watch it, I don't have to talk to anyone. Because you're just depleted. You're empty. And you just need to relax. Okay. Now, this one I want to be careful with. Stay at home. Exodus 16, 29. This is not, so I've got to be really careful here because the interpretation of it is doesn't, doesn't,

it's talking about nurturing those important relationships that are your family. Or when I was hiking the Appalachian Trail, they called it a tramelly. Individual people who are hiking and they partner up with other folks and they become your trail family. Some of you may have a tramelly in the church. A group of people that you just love and you love to hang out with. If you go to Israel today, they actually practice Shabbat on Friday night. It's when Sabbath starts. And it is common to have someone over for dinner and do nothing but eat and enjoy. Maybe play some games. Because this is the stay at home piece. It's this renew the relational energy, the relational impact that God created you for. God is about relationship. It's that God, by definition, is relationship. Father, Son, Holy Spirit.

One God, three persons. By his very nature, he's relationship. And he's into relationship. And when he created the fabric of creation, he created a special time to nurture relationship. And particularly those relationships that are so important. And so, stay at home. It's not illegal. So, the Jews in the time of Jesus, there was a practice. Because they had actually marked out the amount of distance you could go from your home and still stay at home, still meet this. You know this story? And so, there were people who would actually tie a rope to the end of their house and they'd drag it out, like, you know, a quarter mile in the direction they want to go so that they could then take it and follow it. And that way, they could go twice as far as they were allowed because, I'm still at home. I'm on my rope. But that's the definition of legalism, folks.

This is not that. This is about nurturing those relationships that are so critical. This one, too, you have to be careful with. It's not for personal pleasure. It is about personal pleasure. But it's not solely for personal pleasure. So, how many of you, like me, have gone on one of these whirlwind vacations and you get home and what you desperately need is a vacation? That you're harried because you're so seeking personal pleasure? It is pleasurable to be alone with God. It is pleasurable to be with family. It is pleasurable to do things that are renewing and energizing. But the pursuit of that often misses the very purpose of the primafide. It's not the pursuit of the pleasure, but it's the pleasure in the midst of doing the things that are renewing, re-energizing. I think you get that. It's that emotional margin that we all need.

Oh, I'll say that later. It's a day that's refreshing. You know, so I've come to the conclusion where I think all of us need a Sabbath of the day. We need a Sabbath of the week. And we need a Sabbath of the year. And by the way, you can find that in the Scriptures.

Pacific Jews used to pray the morning prayer, and they called it the Sabbath of the day. And here was a rote part of the prayer that they would recite in the midst of their Sabbath day prayer, their Sabbath of the day prayer every morning. I thank you, O ever-living and existing king, for returning my soul to me. Great is your faith in me. What a wonderful prayer. What a wonderful prayer. Calvin Miller says that the last barrier to full intimacy with Christ is hurriedness. And we must be careful. It's a day of celebration. By the way, if you get a chance, some Sunday afternoon over the next year, just pop in here about 2.30, 3 o'clock. We rent this facility to a Hispanic church. And the Hispanic community, at least here, has held on to a tradition that was true for most Americans 70 years ago.

Everyone's dressed to the joke. They did that not because they want to show off, but because they want to celebrate. And my mom, to this day, she gets frustrated. She goes out and says, why are they dressed like that? Why can't they dress nice? Because she wants to dress up when she goes out. She wants to look good. In her day, Sunday morning, you had supper at the church, and the fine china came out. It was the one day that you got dessert. Now, an American dessert is with every meal. That cereal is just basically dessert with milk over it. Do you know that the average American in 1900 ate five pounds of sugar a year? The last stat I saw, and this was about 10 years old, came out of Richard Swenson's book on margins, said that the average American eats 151 pounds of sugar a year.

Because there's sugar in everything. Because there's sugar in everything. Everything. But back then, they would bring out the dessert, and they would bring out the china, and they'd have friends over, and they would rejoice, and they would dress up, they would celebrate. And I'm not telling you to dress up for church. You know, I get it. Cultures change, and all over the world, they're all different. But the idea is, what is celebration for you? And whenever you Sabbath, whatever you choose, if it's Sunday, great, then make it special. Celebrate. We're going to do communion after this, and communion is an act of celebration and remembering. We're going to do a Sabbath activity at the end of the sermon. You know, the Orthodox Jews who would, there's more writing about what the Bible says than there's actual Bible.

And we have that in Christianity, too. I could show you my library. I wish I'd gotten rid of 90% of it. I could still show you my library. But one of the things that the Orthodox Jews believed was that on the Sabbath, in the name of celebration, a righteous couple would make love. Every Sabbath. Wayne Mueller, who wrote his book on Sabbath, if you want to read a great book, Wayne Mueller, just titled Sabbath, gives a lot of practical ways to do Sabbath. Like, you know, when your Sabbath starts in the evening, light a candle, when the stopping starts. Or have a Sabbath box, and you open the Sabbath box at the beginning, and everything you don't need for your Sabbath goes into the box, like maybe your cell phone. I just heard this morning, the average American looks at their cell phone every four minutes.

I forget the stat, but there's a bunch of them who actually sleep with it. That's just weird, folks. I don't know if anything you do that, but that's just weird, you know. Anyways, you put your stuff in the box, and you lock it because you don't need it for the Sabbath. It's those guardrails. So, Wayne Mueller hung out with these righteous, with these Orthodox communities, and he asked them, he said, after about a year, he finally said, Rabbi, can I ask you a personal question? Certainly, my son. He said, you know that thing about making love on the Sabbath? Three times, because their community was very conservative. Three times. He said, do you guys really mean that? And the rabbi said, well, fun, no, generally once. But we have high hopes together, too.

So, I was in Baguio, in the Philippines, working with youth pastors, and I was going over this message in my mind. I'm sitting there at 6 o'clock in the morning, having my coffee, looking out over the, it's up in the mountains, a beautiful valley. And I'm running through this, and I start to laugh, because at another church, I preached this message, and some guy ran up right afterwards and said, hey, do you have a take for that? I want to take it, and I'm willing to my wife to hear it, you know? And so I'm thinking this, and I start to laugh, and I hear the Lord say to me, Matt, I want you to share this message with my bride, because I have high hopes for the other two. God desperately wants times of intimacy with you and I, desperately.

He sent his son to die for it. God cannot dwell where there is sin, and so he became sin, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Why? Because he knows about you. Because he wants to spend time with you. And he kind of needs a special time. He wants to spend time with us all the time. But you know, if Wesley used to say that if you have no scheduled quiet time, you generally have no quiet time. He desperately wants to set apart time with us. He loves us. He's nuts about us. It's a day of remembering. Communion is all about remembering. Remembering is an incredibly pregnant word. I won't take time to go through that. Maybe another day. Keep it holy. Keep it special. If we don't, it will be to our detriment.

So, you know, you know the Jews were thrown out of the promised land for being disobedient. And there was a very specific number of years that they were thrown out of the promised land before they were allowed to come back. You're familiar with this, right? And in the prophets, it tells us that God determined that amount of time, 270 years, because the Jews had refused to give the land its Sabbath every seven years. So, every seven years, they were to give the land its Sabbath. They were led up to those fallow, and God would provide. And they refused to do it. And the prophet says, my land will get its Sabbath. And I'll say the same thing to you. Your body, it will get its Sabbath. The only question is, do you choose it and enjoy it?

Or does it choose you and you don't enjoy it? It will get it. Changing the oil. You get it. Okay. Last one. Before I show you the last one, how many here are looking forward to heaven?

Okay. Yeah, me too. So, Hebrew 4 tells us that we actually have an opportunity to get a foretaste of heaven. We get to have it. We get to smell it. We get to taste it. It's like, you ever seen a little kid who's exploring their world? How do really little infants explore their world? Oh, you know? They just stuff whatever it is in their mouth. Because it's such an, you can have a foretaste of heaven, even four, and it's Sabbath. Your Sabbath, which is created in the very fabric of creation, set apart for his beloved, to enjoy him for eternity, has an opportunity to just sense, taste, experience, just a little piece of heaven, by saying, I set this time aside for you, Lord. For you, my family, for my body, for myself. Folks, if as a church, we actually choose to obey God and embrace this wonderful gift that he's given us,

the ministry that we'll find us, that we'll have power to meet, will be unbelievable. We'll be full. And out of fullness will come the power of Christ to redeem the world. You're his plan. There is no plan B. You're his plan. It's his church. It's us. And so he wants to take us, love on us, fill us up, encourage us, and then sing us for us. Does this make sense? Andy, would you come and talk to us about communion? Lead us in our time of communion as we do this thing of remembering and celebrating the Sabbath activity today.
