Relational Proximity
2022-04-11
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_D2UcZEoIG0

All right. Good morning, church. Can you all hear me? Hey! This is my first time talking on this fancy microphone, so I'm kind of feeling it. I can wave my hands around and move around and everything, so I was feeling really, really good up until the time that music started playing, so bear with me. Thanks. That's what I need. Good morning, Canvas. For those of you that don't know me, my name is Corey Smith. Spence taught me a couple days ago. Dave Spence, for you guys that don't know us, and he's like, man, I almost didn't recognize you without a hat on, so if I look unfamiliar to any of you, it's because I don't have a hat on today. I'm one of the elders here at Canvas. I also lead a small group called Theology

on Tap. If you guys are interested, we'd love to have you. We meet once in a while at a restaurant around town, third Wednesday of the month, and just sit down and have honest conversations with each other about what it looks like to be a Christian, or if you have questions about what it looks like to be a Christian, or have five questions about my faith, we're there for you as a group. Because I'm following the success of Andy a little bit, and you guys don't hear me that often. I've got to get to know when I can. My wife, Samantha, is up here. They're two sons. My oldest, Corbin, will be six on Wednesday, and Colton, you'll probably see them either flailing in the lobby after church, running around, playing tag, something. My mom and dad, my father-in-law, my mother-in-law, they're all right there.

So, this morning, I have the distinct privilege to talk to you guys about the fourth chapter of the book of James. More specifically, verses 1 through 10. I know, we've been, like, speeding our way through this, so bear with us. There's a lot here. So, when Ryan and I were sitting down chatting, he's like, man, you're going to go through a time where you're like, what am I going to say? You know, I'm not going to have anything to say. It's going to be like a 10-minute sermon, and everybody's on the board. Then you're going to get into a spot where you're like, I have way too much to say. And that's kind of where I'm at. I told Ryan, I added about another 1,000 words since we sat down and went over it. So, bear with

me. According to Michelle, I'm going to use up, I just told you I added another 1,000 words. I'm going to use up, like, half the words I say in a day in 35 minutes-ish. I want to get to know my group. Are you guys podcasters or audiobook people? All right, all right. Do we listen to it at normal speed or, like, at least one and a half times speed? If you're not in that group, I'm going to apologize to you in advance. But I'm going to try to slow down and be intentional. But I'm just, like, I want to get my thoughts out there. So, I'm going to try to slow down today and be intentional. If I'm going too fast, somebody give me, like, the slow down. I'll think it's a hanky. We can all, like, hang out. So, James,

if you've been with us, it's a pretty practical book. I hope you guys have experienced that so far. And I'm not the finale. Happy Palm Sunday. But next week's Easter, we're still probably going to be, got a couple more sermons lined up in the book of James. But we're going to take a break for the resurrection. And what I mean by practical, it's a book that anybody could take home, read it for yourselves, and find practical application in your daily lives pretty easily. It's a letter that I think is meant to do that. James meant it that way. But the hard part I've found while reading James is you're going to have to be honest with yourself about it. So, bear with me today as I allow room for the Holy Spirit to move me and my nerves. I'm not too shaky yet. But move me and my nerves out of the way and hopefully

give you some potentially encouraging, convicting, and maybe, just maybe, some more practical exercises that help carry your relationship with God into next week and potentially throughout your lifetime. I'm a guy that doesn't necessarily like to hear himself talk. Some of you, if you know me, might disagree with that statement. Might disagree. But it's true. And someone who enjoys two-way communication. Sometimes, as Ryan points out, even maybe arguing a case. But I like talking with people. The back-and-forth conversations, I like those more than the ones where you just hear me talking because I don't even like the sound of my own voice. So, with that being said, I've poured over these notes. I'm still a little shaky. But what I'm going to need some involvement is some involvement from you guys. Really just to make me feel more comfortable

up here, not so lonely. Can you all do that for me? Okay. All right. Will we forget how to read? Who knows? Just how you doing? All right. Let's pray real quick and then we'll get into kind of the meat and potatoes of it. Dear Father, we thank you for this day, Lord. Thank you for allowing me the privilege to stand up in front of these people who I so dearly love to help teach them what you would have me teach, Lord. Move me out of the way. And that just these people in this room, Lord, and online get the message that you want them to get, Lord. Not the one I've prepared, not the one I've poured over, but the one you want them to receive, Lord. In Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. So, James is about

to have some super difficult conversation. I don't know why I got picked for this in the rotation, but here I am. I get the pleasure of unpacking that with you all today. And when I say pleasure, I'm kind of being sarcastic because it's not an easy conversation to have. It's almost a conversation that none of us want to be in the room for. He's setting us all down. He's looking at, he's looking us in the eyes and he's calling us out for shortcomings, but not only a shortcoming, not only a sin. He's calling us adulterers. And what's more, he's not without evidence. This isn't a blind accusation. He's got it. The proof is right in front of us. He's going to reference you. And when I mean you, I'm going to point at y'all, but I mean me too. He's going to point

at you throughout our reading today. And if we're really honest with ourselves, it's accurate. With all that, let's get into this instead of just me talking. Open up your Bibles to James chapter four, and we're going to be focusing our time on verses one through 10. I'll be reading out of the NLT this morning. If you want to follow along with your Bible app, of course, the words are up here on the screen. But I'm going to throw back to my childhood pastor real quick. I don't want you to take my word for it. I want you guys to read it for yourselves. So with that, let's get into it. James chapter four, verse one. What is causing the quarrels and fights among you? Don't they come from the evil desires at war with you? You want what you don't have, so you scheme and kill to get it. You're jealous

of what others have, but you can't get it. So you fight and wage war to take it from them. Yet you don't have what you want because you don't ask God for it. But even when you ask, you don't get it because your motives are all wrong. You want only what gives you pleasure. You adulterers, don't you realize that your friendship with the world makes you an enemy of God? I say it again, if you want to be a friend of the world, you make yourself an enemy of God. What do you think the Scriptures mean when they say that the spirit God has placed within us? It's filled with envy. But he gives us even more grace to stand against such evil desires. As the Scriptures say, God opposes the proud, but favors the

humble. So now we get kind of, we got the accusations out of the way. Let's get into fixing this. So humble yourselves before God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. Come close to God and he will come close to you. Wash your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts for your loyalty is divided between God and this world. Let there be tears for what you have done. Let there be sorrow and deep grief. Let there be sadness instead of laughter and gloom instead of joy. Humble yourselves before the Lord and he will lift you up in honor. So, super, super pumped. Who thought they were coming to church this Sunday for like an uplifting message? Okay. Hey, good. You guys are in good company. As I said earlier, I get the joys of unpacking all this with you today. So be gracious with me. As you might have noticed as we

read through the text, James's emphasis is on relational proximity. This is the first thing I want to do before getting into kind of unpacking this is define some words. You'll hear me say relational proximity. See, we've talked about authentic Christian faith and that's the overarching narrative of James and every person you've heard from this stage has tried to drive that home. James is giving us a look under the hood to see the engine. This is the thing that drives us to more authentic Christian life that Jesus has called us to. Relational proximity. As in friendship, right? In verse four, it means a close and intimate relationship. Not, not the, not in the sense of a neighborly Christian friendship, but John 15, 13, there is no greater love than to lay down one's life for one's friends.

So in verse four, who are you willing to lay your life down for? Or in other words, who are you willing to give allegiance to? James uses prophetic imagery around the word friend because his readers were speaking, what friendship with the world could give them? Social acceptance, prestige, or wealth. I can see the wheels kind of turning now. How can I share Christ with the world if I can't be friends with the world? So that's why I want you to get in the framework of seeing this word friendship as allegiance. We'll unpack a little bit more of this in a minute. See, and we'll see world here in verse four. So I want to define that. A society opposed to God and his kingdom. We oftentimes use the word worldly in our Christian vocabulary. And what we mean by that is fallen, as since the garden. But I want us

to view this in the correct biblical lens, just like the word friendship. But John lays this concept out perfectly in 1 John 2, 16 through 17. For everything in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life comes not from the Father, but from the world. See, the world and its desires pass away, but whoever does the will of God lives forever. See, the people in this world are not our enemy. Much like the term Babylon, the term world represents an overarching idea that is removed and separate from God. It's rebellion to God's initial design. See, 1 John 5, 5. Who is it that overcomes the world? Only the one who believes Jesus is the Son of God. Okay. Now that I've completely mudded the waters, let's get into it. Let's talk about the first section, verses 1 through 5. And I got into my

notes here, but really the whole chapter, the whole verses 1 through 10 is specifically talking to the Christians. So I'm going to specifically talk to Christians here. If you call yourself a Christian, a follower of Christ, this is for you. Remember, James is one of the principal leaders of the church of Jerusalem. So he's writing to a scattered group of believers in fear for persecution of the Roman Empire. So what is causing quarrels and fights among you? Think about that. That's a question for us. Don't answer it out loud. Just think about it. I would wager to say that the root of the answer to this question, much like mine and much like the original readers of this book, is proximity to the world. Think about that. Don't these things you just thought about come from the evil desires at war with you, James

says? See, remember, these are Christians who are still arguing, even when the Roman Empire is looking to kick in the door. So it's safe to say quarreling, fighting, and might I add gossiping, isn't new to the church or the people within it. But again, these things happen when you're prioritizing your friendship with the world above your friendship with God. You ever wonder why you don't get along with particular people? Or why relationships aren't easier? Or that one person in small group that you clash with? Nobody? Nobody? Okay. Or that one child that gets on your nerves? It's true. It's true. It happens. See, conflicts happen. See, James uses a strong word here in verse 1. War. What is war? What is war? What is it good for? What is war? James uses military imagery to declare that

our own evil desires and relational proximity were and are at the immediate cause of the battles among church members and even in their own hearts. You see, war, our conflicts, reveal what's going on in our hearts. Our hearts. Not the other person's heart. Not what someone said to you, but what is going on in our own hearts. We're preaching to ourselves here. See, how influenced, see this defines how influenced we are by the world around us. Or the God who lives in us. And like I said, this is specifically for the Christian. So if you're born again, you've got two natures warring inside you. So the nature you're born with, which is hateful, sad, angry, irritable, mean, stingy, fearful, rough, and there's no restraint. And then you've got the nature you've adopted. So that was the nature you were born with. The nature you've

adopted, if you're a believer of Jesus, is loving, joyful, peaceful, patient, kind, generous, faithful, gentle, and always has restraint. See, it's the opposite. They don't live in harmony. I hope you see what I did there. If you don't, read Galatians 5. But these are the two natures at war within the follower of Jesus. I've said this before and I'll continue to say it because I think it holds true, Christianity in itself has an air of hypocrisy. We're sinners, saved by grace, and authenticity is the only defense to hypocrisy. We need to be honest about this and we need to be honest with ourselves. And this is where James is going. The strange thing is, sometimes Christians are worse than secular people. Not only do we use people to get what we want, sometimes we even try to use God to get what we want. Prayer is a good thing. It's a good thing. But you can use it

negatively, too. See, it turns into a bad thing, like James says, when we treat God like a genie. Like a cosmic waiter just waiting to bring us whatever our hearts desire. That's what James is talking about in verses 2 and 3. I want you to think about this. The strongest, most natural force in our solar system is the gravitational pull of the sun. Wikipedia tells me it's 177 times greater than the gravitational pull of the moon. So take that for what it's worth. And what does the sun do in the heart of our solar system? It acts on all eight planets, right? You keep them in unison. It keeps them in order by reacting to its pull. If you take the sun out of our solar system, all you're left with is cosmic chaos. Each planet is

reacting to each other's pull. This is what our desires are doing when we live amongst one another. This is the natural. What are you going to let pull you and guide you? Your own pull? Someone else's? Or God's? That's the question. See, don't worry. James gets on. I'm not done yet. In verse 4, here's where the hard work comes in. He calls us adulterers. Adulterers. Adulterers. But who have we cheated with? See, we've stepped out of the covenant of marriage with God if we continue to lay down with this world. And if we continue to fornicate with our fleshly desires, we're guilty of adultery against God. See, verse 5, they say that God is passionate, that the spirit he has placed within us should be faithful to him and faithful to him only. Everything else only looks like adultery. See, what James is pointing out here is that everything apart

from relational proximity to God is adultery to God. See, James is having something here that is described throughout the biblical narrative as a faithful God that is married to a consistently unfaithful bride, his people. So there's one particular book in the Bible where this is vividly played out, and that's the book of Hosea. Hosea is a spokesman of God writing somewhere around 750 BC. And get this, so God tells him to marry a promiscuous woman, a woman who God knew would not be faithful to him. See, the book brings the picture of God saying, Hosea, I want your life to be a living experience of what I experienced so that you can teach others about it. Hosea, in his obedience, listens to God and marries this woman named Gomer. I don't recommend you name your daughters Gomer. It's a terrible girl's name.

First off, but so he marries this woman named Gomer. He has children with her. He's faithful to her. And yet she is unfaithful to him with the other men around the town. And then God says, Hosea, take her back. Welcome her into your home. Share your bed with her again. Love her and forgive her. See, in Hosea 3, 1, God even says, love her as the Lord loves the Israelites. Consistently unfaithful people. So are we guilty of loving God with our heart, soul, and strength? Are we guilty of loving this world with all that? See, James reminds us, reminds us that this is serious. That we've, I'm concerned that we've adopted an easy come, easy, easy come, easy go type of relationship with God. This is spiritual adultery and James is calling us all out on it. Sadly, our relationship with God has gone

from what must I do to be saved to what can I do and still be saved. Think of it this way. We'll be super practical like James. Think of a newlywed. If you're not married, think of a rom-com. Apparently that's not as popular of a term as I thought it was. It means romantic comedy. So now you guys are hip and cool with the lingo. Rom-com. I'm going to use myself as an example here. So when Samantha and I were first married and even dating, I wanted to be super relational with her. I went out of my way to make sure she was happy, supported, felt the love and attention that she deserved. Mostly so she wasn't wise enough to the fact that she married down. And FYI, her eyesight is terrible. Just saying that. I wanted her to know

that she was my top priority. I wanted her to feel loved, appreciated, heard, and validated as my wife. But eventually came distractions, obligations, children. Life happened with all the busyness of it. But see, God knew all this when he was writing through James. That's the beauty of serving a God that laid down his divinity for humanity. He knows life because he lived it. If you're married and you enter a covenant with your spouse, if you're Christian, you've entered a covenant with God. So I want to talk about position and condition. My position as a husband might not change because I don't pay attention to my wife as much or love her the way I used to or make sure she feels appreciated. See, I'm still her husband. But our condition on the other hand will definitely change. The condition of our relationship suffers greatly

when I don't pay attention to her needs, her happiness, and her feelings. So what's the fix of this? How do I repair my relationship with God? See, James gives us the answer. This is where I need some involvement. Is it to try to be nicer? No. Is it to try to do better? No. Is it to try to be more faithful? No. Now, if that's what you've been hearing as we've worked through, James, you've missed the point. Either you're doing a really bad job of listening or we're doing a really bad job of teaching. But see, we're to the hinge here. See, we're at the point where we learn how to turn things around. Relational proximity. Draw near to God and he will draw near to you. See, James has given us an outline of what it looks like to

be away from God and close to the world. Now let's look at what it looks like to be close to God and away from the world. The first thing I want to look at in verse six is he gives grace generously. See, think back to Hosea. He had a small taste of what God has had to deal with since creation. Since creation, Adam and Eve. But God, unlike us, has continued to be faithful. Continued to love us from the beginning of time to the end of it. God is faithful. He has nail prints in his hands and his feet that are the evidence of his love. Your life, my life, bears the marks of our unfaithfulness to him. But his life and his body bears the marks of his faithfulness to you and to me. That's grace. See, grace isn't I've got it all together. See,

grace is, grace isn't I can do whatever I want to with no consequences. Grace is you've made mistakes. They don't define you. Jesus does. For from his faithfulness, we have received grace upon grace. John 1, 16. But with grace, grace isn't received in a prideful heart. See, James says grace is given when a heart is humbly willing to accept it. So we sang that today. But how many of us practice that? I heard a sermon one time that talked about how many times you've sang, I surrender all. You know, the old hymn. How many of us have truly surrendered all? See, this is the gospel. This is the good news. God's kingdom is at hand. God has returned to his people. God has taken everything that has due me and ransomed me. He's taken judgment from the only one

capable of delivering it properly. I'm going to say that again because it's for me. He's taken judgment from the only one capable of delivering it properly. See, Tim Keller puts it like this. The gospel is that we are more sinful and flawed in ourselves than we ever dared believe. Yet, at the very same time, we are more loved and accepted in Jesus Christ than we ever dared hoped.

And it's because of this that James ends the section like this. God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So humble yourselves before God. I'm going to say that again because it's for me. Humble yourselves before God. How is it that we started a conversation about an adulterous affair, and it ends with saying, humble yourselves to the one whom you've betrayed, and he will exalt you. We've betrayed God, but God also promises in his faithfulness to exalt us. Don't shield yourself from this message. Don't withdraw from a message that is heavy-handed about who you are.

Don't defend or deflect it. Humble yourselves under it. See, when you humble yourselves under the weight of who you really are, you begin to see God for who he really is. This is the moment you can feel God moving in. This is the moment we not only see ourselves as lawbreakers, but adulterers. And we can begin to see how in need of a Savior we truly are. See, we'll circle back to the easy-come, easy-go type of relationship with God. Can you think of a more prideful stance than have of the creator of the universe, the king of kings and the Lord of lords? Preach himself here. Then I'll give you what you want when I'm good and ready. Is this the attitude of love? Is this the attitude of allegiance? Is this the attitude of the humble?

Stop being too proud to hit your knees. God's kingdom is upside down. Humble yourselves before God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. See, Ryan last week talked about the unholy trinity consisting of the world, the flesh, and the devil. See, all three will promise you things that you think will fill the void in your soul. But I can promise you they won't. You can try them, but I promise they won't. See, prestige, influence, power, and wealth, none of these will water your soul like Jesus.

See, Jesus' Sermon on the Mount wasn't a recruiting call for the strongest among you, or the smartest, or the most influential. It was a recruiting call for the heart, for a heart willing to be molded. Here's the hard truth. That makes people laugh. Let me just take a pause here and say we're not going, like, maybe Ryan set it up that we're going to one sermon after I preach. I don't know. Hear it. Here's the hard truth. The audience of the Sermon on the Mount probably weren't like us. And what I mean by that is the audience of the sermon probably wouldn't have the means to drive to church. The audience of the sermon wouldn't have a nice house to go home to. See, the audience of the sermon didn't have money in the bank account.

The audience of the sermon were probably just like Jesus described in verse 3 of Matthew 5. God blesses those who are poor and realize their need for him. See, this is the reality for me, and this is the reality for a lot of us in here. I'm a middle-class man. I live in Frederick County, Virginia. I have a good job. I have money in the bank. I drove here. I have a home and a family to go home to. See, part of the invitation to follow Jesus is for me to lay down those privileges and proximity to the world and prioritize proximity to God in which many ways, almost all ways, is upside down to the values of this world. I don't mean to be cranky. I really don't. I'm preaching to myself here as well.

We're the rich men coming to Jesus in chapter 19 of Matthew. We're the ones with so much we don't think we need relational proximity because all of our needs can be met or already met.

Again, James' solution to our predicament is to humble ourselves before God and to resist the world. I love how Solomon puts it so wisely in Proverbs 22, 4. Humility is the fear of the Lord. See, we get what the world took away. It's wages are riches and honor and life. Come to God. Come close to God. Relational proximity. Right? We sang this today. Wash your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, for your loyalty is divided between God and this world. Without getting into purity rituals, let me make this practical. Wash your hands. It's 2022. We've probably, like, probably already been practicing this. But that's not what that means. Wash your hands, your body. Wash all the dirt, grime, and sludge that you've collected while wallowing in this world. Purify your hearts. Come to God, to God alone, because he provides our needs, not the world.

He sustains us, not the world. Verse 9. Let there be tears. Let there be sorrow. Let there be reflection on how wicked we are, unworthy of love, unworthy of grace, and unworthy of mercy before a holy God. Verse 10. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up in honor. See, if you're in this room today, and you feel broken, and you feel crushed under the weight of your sin, praise God. Because those are the type of people God draws near to. So let me wrap all this up and put a nice little bow on all this. Relational proximity. Draw close to God, and he will draw close to you. Dave, will you throw my sweet picture up there on the screen? Hey, look at this guy. He got a hat on. So interaction, right? Who's bigger? Me or the Washington Monument? In this picture? Me.

Me. In your proximity. In your perception. I'm bigger because you're closer to me. I'm the closer proximity. So how is fear so much bigger than my God?

How is my lust so much bigger than my God? How is my pride so much bigger than my God? How is my sin, fill in the blank, so much bigger than my God? If your problem is big and your God is small, it's not that your God is small and your problem is big. It's not that I'm bigger than the Washington Monument. It's that you're sitting closer to the problem than you are to God. God doesn't change sizes. See, once you enter the presence of God, you realize how big he is and how small your problems are. He doesn't need us. He invites us because he is a God who is always faithful to his promises, even when we're not. Come close to God and he will draw close to you. That's right. Dear Heavenly Father, bless your bride this week as we go forth sorrowful for our sins, but grateful for your grace.

God, help us weed out the parts. Help weed out the parts in my heart that are still more in love with the world than they are with you. Help us not to share loyalties with you, Lord, because you alone are worthy. Thanks for these people. Thanks for this time together. But most of all, thank you for not seeing us as enemies, but as your children. As a spouse in need of redemption, as a spouse in need of grace. Lord, we patiently wait for the day we feast and celebrate with you. In Jesus' name. Amen.
