Persevering Faith
2022-01-31
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XN-l9KWVCyk

We'll be right back. Well, good morning, Canvas Church. Thanks so much for joining us this morning. Man, did my heart need to sing about the goodness of God this morning. Super thankful for the worship team kind of preparing our hearts for everything that's going to happen in this room and in the lobby and through the rest of your day. The thing that we hold on to in having a personal relationship with God is that it's not just about what happens in here, but it's about every moment of our lives because God is present and active in our lives. If you don't know me, my name is Ryan. I am one of the pastors on staff here, and I am so glad that you have joined us. At the beginning of the year, we kind of titled this loose series, God Only Knows.

As our church is kind of in a season of transition, I thought it would be good, rather than to plan out some long-term series, that we would just kind of week by week seek the Lord, seek the Holy Spirit, ask what He would have for us to hear, and respond to that. And if I'm being honest, since this is a church of real people with real lives, I am a planner, and I like to know what's going to happen weeks in advance. And so this has been really challenging for me as I, each week, to say, God, what do you have for us? What might you be teaching us this week? And so it's been tough for me, but I am confident this morning that the Lord has led me to the passage that we're going to be studying for a really good purpose.

And if you remember, if you checked it out online, the last time I preached, the Lord led me to this really weird, obscure little letter in Philemon. And it's not a well-known passage. It's a passage where Paul's writing specifically to a couple of individuals. And for whatever reason, the Lord has yet again led me to a weird, obscure little passage at the end of 2 Timothy, where Paul's kind of saying goodbye to his friends. It's kind of his final address. And 2 Timothy is actually the last book that Paul is going to write before he dies for his faith. And so we're going to kind of look at this letter, this weird, obscure conversation that he's having with a few of his friends right before he leaves. And ultimately, I think we're going to see some wisdom about persevering through trials.

It's a weird text, so let me read it so that you can begin to question how in the world I'm going to preach a 40-minute message through this strange passage. I'll pray, and then we'll kind of get into it. Does that sound good for everybody? Good. All right. 2 Timothy 4, starting in verse 9. Paul says, My papers. Alexander the coppersmith did me much harm, but the Lord will judge him for what he has done. Be careful of him, for he fought against everything we said. The first time I was brought before the judge, no one came with me. Everyone abandoned me. May it not be counted against them, but the Lord stood with me and he gave me strength so that I might preach the good news in its entirety for all the Gentiles to hear.

And he rescued me from certain death. Yes, and the Lord will deliver me from every evil attack and will bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. All glory to God forever. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we are so thankful that we have a cloud of witnesses of other believers that have gone before us that have suffered for the faith, that have persevered trials and tribulations and difficulties, that have been led by the Spirit to write the Scriptures, to give us insight into how difficult it can be to follow Jesus in the midst of persecution and difficulty. This morning, Holy Spirit, I pray that you would be present and active in this room, that you would be teaching us lessons about what we can do practically in our lives to be a people that persevere through trials,

to be a people that get to the end of our lives more in love with Jesus than we ever were before. This is not something that comes naturally or easy. This is a day-by-day relationship that we invest in. And so, Holy Spirit, teach us each what we need to hear. Bring to mind areas in our lives that are drawing us out of relationship with you. And give us wisdom about ways that we can invest in our relationship with you this morning for your glory and for our good. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You want to follow along that weird passage with a lot of names and places. It is in 2 Timothy, so you want to turn in there. That's where we'll be this morning. As you're turning there, I'd love to get some participation from the group.

How many mini-goth fans do we have in the room? Anybody in here enjoys a game of mini-goth? We've got some mini-goth fans in here. Somehow, I find a way to work golf into my sermons a lot, so I'm sorry about that, but here we are. Marissa's family specifically, my family, Marissa's family, we all love mini-goth, but Marissa's family specifically, we are like obsessed with mini-goth. And we go on vacation together every two years. And my brother-in-law and the siblings, like, we play so much mini-goth. I think at one point we played, like, 15 games of mini-goth in one week. It was insane, right? But, and because we're men, all the women in the room are going to understand here in a second, my brother-in-law, we decided to make a competition, right? Because, like, you can't just have fun doing games.

There has to be a competition. There has to be a winner and a loser. There may or may not have been money placed on the tournament overall. But because it was a tournament, my brother-in-law and I, we would fight to go last. Every time we would go to play mini-golf, we would fight to go last. And the reason that we would fight to go last is because there's this principle when it comes to putting in golf, it's called seeing the line, right? And, like, the more people that go before you, the more you can learn from the terrain ahead. You can learn, like, which way the ball is going to go, which hills there are on the course. And the goal of the course, it's designed to try and keep you from getting to the hole, right?

Like, there's obstacles in the way, there's things, there's difficulties that are trying to keep you. From finishing the hole well. And when I think about that, I think about the Christian life. Because, like, living on earth, we have really three natural enemies that keep us from finishing well. We've got the world, the flesh, and the devil that are all trying to keep us from loving Jesus well throughout our entire life. That's kind of a normal setup. But even on top of that, oftentimes we have situations and circumstances, difficulties, trials in our life. And when you go mini golfing, every once in a while, usually one or two holes per course, there's, like, there's a chance for you to lose the ball. Right? Like, there's water. There's, like, not every hole has these, like, massive difficulties.

Sometimes it's just pretty simple. But every once in a while, you'll get to a hole. And it's really beneficial that you get to go last in those situations. Because you get to see what's going to happen. You get to see all of the dangers and difficulties ahead. And in this small, obscure passage in 2 Timothy, we get to look at how some of our brothers and sisters in Christ went through a really difficult time in their life. A trial in their life. And some of them were successful. Some of them persevered through difficulty. Some of them started well and ended well. Some of them started poorly and ended well. Some of them started well and ended poorly. And as we get into this passage, I can't help but think of that famous passage in Hebrews that says,

Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a crowd of witnesses to this life of faith, let us strip off every weight that slows us down, especially the sin that so easily traps us up. And let us run with endurance the race God has set before us. And so my hope and my prayer for this message this morning is that we would learn from those who have gone before us. That we can learn some really practical lessons about how they persevered through trials, about the way that obstacles got them off track from following Jesus. And ultimately, I boiled it down to four lessons for persevering trials. I think from 2 Timothy 4, we can learn four lessons, four practical lessons for what it looks like to persevere trials. And if we're just honest this morning, every single person in this room is going through a trial.

Like, the American existence has been a trial for the last two and a half years. Like, there's this low profile hum in the background of all of our lives. We're all going through a difficult season. But on top of that, that's led some of us into even more difficult trials. Like, some of us have gotten through COVID and, like, our lives still kind of look like what they did two and a half years ago. But some of us, man, this is just trial on top of trial, broken relationships, lost jobs, financial struggles. Like, there's a lot of trials in this room this morning. And what happens when we face trials, if we're not careful, like, real people, real lives, if we're being honest, what happens when we face trials is it's really tempting to get angry.

Anybody else get angry when they face trials? Anybody else start to believe, like, I shouldn't be here? I shouldn't be facing these situations? Like, God, you shouldn't have let this happen to me? And what happens when we get angry is the Scripture says that anger gives the devil a foothold in our lives. Like, we get angry, we get bitter. And when we get angry, we get bitter. There's even more opportunity for us to get knocked off track. And so I think now more than ever, it's so important for us to pay a close attention to how we're living, how we're persevering. What does our relationship look like in the midst of this trial? Because I was talking to somebody the other day, and I said, like, it feels like the last two and a half years is kind of like a snow vacation in school, right?

Because, like, life just changes every other week. Like, we think we get into a pattern, we think we get into a rhythm, and then something else changes. We're in a difficult season, and if we're not paying attention to the trajectory of our lives, it's really easy for us to look back six months from now and say, wow, I never would have drawn up being here where I am. But if we're not careful to pay attention to those things, we can get there. So that's why, man, I think it's so important this morning that we learn from the lessons of these brothers and sisters who have gone before us. And what they're facing in 2 Timothy is way worse than COVID, right? Like, they're being persecuted for the faith. Like, it's possible that they're going to give their lives for following Jesus.

So we're in similar situations. They're in a more severe version of it. And we get the first principle from these first couple of verses where Paul says, Timothy, please come to me as soon as you can. Why? For Demas has deserted me. Why did he leave? Because he loves the things of this life. So I think the first principle that we can learn for persevering through trials, for having a life where we end up loving Jesus more at the end of it than at the beginning of it, is that we have to keep a close eye on our affections. It says Demas deserted Paul because he's in love with the things of this life. See, Demas started out well. At the end of that letter in Philemon chapter, or in Philemon verse 23 and 24,

it says that Demas and Luke are my fellow workers. So prior to this, Paul is saying, like, Demas is a brother in Christ, a fellow minister of the gospel. Demas was at one point living well for the Lord, making a difference, having a kingdom impact. Demas started out as a faithful servant of God and a co-worker of Paul. But somehow, through some difficulties and trials of following Jesus in the first century, he ended up at a point where he was willing to totally walk away from his faith in Jesus because he was in love with the things of this world. And this doesn't happen overnight. Like, those of us that are married, we know that this doesn't happen overnight. You don't wake up the day after your honeymoon hating your spouse. It doesn't happen. Like, you get home from the honeymoon, everything's great.

Life's great. Like, everything's great. But, if we look at the divorce rate in our country, like, over time, if people aren't careful, if people don't pay attention, if they don't keep a close eye on their affections, over time, they get to a point where they wake up and they say, man, I don't know. I don't know that I love this person anymore. I don't know that this is going to work out anymore. You don't have a radical encounter with the overwhelming, never-ending love of Jesus and then the next day decide that he's no longer worth following. But, over time, if we don't pay attention to the way that our souls are interacting with the things of this earth, it's easy, sometimes more easy than not, to end up loving the things of this world more than we love the giver of those good gifts,

more than we love Jesus himself. And, if we're going to have a faith that perseveres, we have to keep a close eye on the things that we love. The best way I can illustrate this is oil changes. Right? Like, I was talking to somebody this week about this, and the reality is, like, you can, and Brad and Mission Auto in the microchurch, you guys are watching, they're either going to love this illustration or hate this illustration. But, I know nothing about cars. Pretty much the only thing I do for myself is change the oil, and I don't do that in the winter because, you know, what's an extra 20 bucks so that I can feel my fingers for a day? But, so, here's the deal with oil changes, right? Like, you can go a couple thousand miles over the time that you're supposed to get your oil changed,

and you're really not going to notice much of a difference. Like, you're not going to fully see the effects that are happening to your engine. And somebody else can get in your car, and they're not going to be like, whoa, man, it feels like you need an oil change. Right? Like, you're not going to feel the effects of going a couple thousand miles over your oil change. Nobody else around you is going to feel the effects of going a couple thousand miles over your oil change. But if you go a couple thousand more, a couple thousand more, a couple thousand more, it can be catastrophic. I had a friend call me a couple years ago as his wife's car blew up, and she was in West Virginia. And I guess he thought, like, I just knew everybody in West Virginia.

I think that's kind of the common misconception about people from West Virginia is we either know everyone in West Virginia or we're related to, like, 50% of it, so we can track them down. He was like, dude, can you help my wife, like, she's here. And I'm like, dude, you're, like, 250 miles away from me. No, I don't know anyone there. But her engine exploded because he kept putting off getting the oil changed. He told me, I could hear it, like, his voice quivering, Ryan, it's on my list of things to do. I intended to do it. But he never got around to it. And because it piled up and piled up and piled up, she went on a long journey, and the engine blew up, and literally their car was in West Virginia for the rest of its existence.

They never got it back. Like, it wasn't worth fixing. But listen to what he said. He said, I intended to do it. I love how Andy Stanley says it. Andy Stanley says, direction, not intention, determines our destination. Direction, like what we actually do, where we actually go, the things that we actually build into our life, those are what determine where we end up. Not what we want to do, not what we think about doing, not what we plan to do, but what we actually do. And if we're going to persevere in our faith through hard, difficult times, when everything is working against us, when the world, the flesh, and the devil are all trying to get us off track, and especially in seasons of trial, when we might be getting angry with God and other people in our lives,

and we might be giving the devil, the enemy, a foothold in our lives, if we're not careful to pay attention to what we're actually doing, not what we intend to do, but what we actually do, we could end up like Demas and say, you know what? This whole Jesus thing is fun while it lasts. It's not worth it. I don't know that there's a more heartbreaking verse in all of Scripture than Demas has deserted us in love with the present world, because those of us who have followed Jesus for any time at all know that the present world might bring some fleeting pleasures, but at the end of the day, it's empty. The author of Ecclesiastes calls it meaningless. Demas left the faith, left the thing, the abundant life for something that's meaningless, and if we're not careful to keep a close eye on our affections,

trials build up, difficulties build up, hard times build up, and before we know it, we might not even realize it, we get to a place where we're in a really unhealthy place. Somebody asked me a question a few years ago, and I've tried to come back to it on a regular basis. They said, if your soul continues on its current trajectory, where will you be in five years? This is direction, not intention. Right? Like, if you keep doing the things you're doing right now for your soul in your relationship with God, where will you be in five years? We can make it really practical. Like, if you keep eating the way that you're eating, how much are you going to weigh in five years? Right? Like, we disconnect soul and body, but the reality is the same is true for our souls.

If we keep doing what we're doing when it comes to our relationship with Jesus, how is that going to affect us over the next five years? Man, but people who persevere through trials, they learn to regularly and intentionally stir up their love for God. You guys have probably heard this principle in marriage, right? Like, the date night principle. Like, be intentional to date your spouse. The same is true in our relationship with God. We have to be intentional to stir up our affections and in love for God. And sometimes those things come naturally, and sometimes they're enjoyable. Sometimes they're hard. And you just have to put them on your calendar and do them. I follow this pastor who talks a lot about spiritual practices, spiritual habits, things that stir your affections for Jesus. And he talks about them in two ways.

He says there's upstream practices and downstream practices. He says downstream practices are the fun ones, right? Like sitting around a campfire with other brothers and sisters in Christ and just enjoying the creation and talking about how good God has been in your life, how faithful he's been to get you through trials. Like going for a hike in the morning and getting to that peak and seeing that sunset and just saying, wow, God, aren't you so good? Those are downstream practices. Those things come naturally. Playing golf, right? Like playing golf on a nice day for me just stirs my affections for Jesus. It's a good gift from God. Those are easy things. They come naturally. But then there's some upstream practices, like maybe a Sabbath, right? Like maybe turning off your phone and, like, not doing anything.

And there's something our souls learn by not doing anything. Like that actually our identity in Christ matters. Like God doesn't love us because of how much we accomplish, but he actually just loves us because he created us. He wants a relationship with us. For some of you, the idea of a Sabbath, like that's an upstream practice. That's hard. That's something you're going to have to force yourself to do at the beginning. But the cool thing is as you force yourself to do some of those upstream practices, some of those upstream practices actually become downstream practices. You actually learn to love some of those things. But this guy, he said, Christians are far too good at forcing ourselves to do upstream practices, and we don't give ourselves enough, like, downstream practices. We get religious, and we force ourselves to do these things.

And he says, man, like, a relationship with God shouldn't be that difficult. Sometimes we just got to get better at enjoying the gifts that he's given us. So I think that's the first lesson we can learn from this passage is Demas showed us what it looks like to start good and end poorly because he allowed himself to fall in love with the things of this world rather than the things of God. Let's be a people that keep a close eye on our affections. Let's ask ourselves this week, take some time, some time this week to stop and ask yourself, if my soul continues on its current trajectory, where will I be five years from now? Where will I be a year from now? Where will I be six months from now? Am I happy with the answer to that question?

If not, what are some upstream and downstream practices that I can build into my life? Man, my heart is that no one that calls Candace home would ever find themselves in a situation like Demas for they desert the faith all together. Goes on and in verse 11, Paul says, only Luke is with me. You guys know Luke, wrote the book of Luke, wrote the book of Acts. Then we got another author of Scripture. He says, bring Mark with you when you come, for he will be helpful to me in my ministry. I think we can learn this second principle from Mark. The second principle for ending well, for persevering through trials, is that we can't let our past mistakes determine our future faithfulness. Don't let your past mistakes determine your future faithfulness. Mark and Paul, they had a falling out earlier in their relationship.

Acts chapter 15, it says, now Barnabas wanted to take with them John, called Mark, but Paul thought it best not to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work. And there arose a sharp disagreement so that they separated from each other. So John, Mark, and Paul, they had this difficult thing that happened in their early relationship. And it could have been really easy for both of them not to learn from this lesson. I think both Paul and Mark made a mistake here. Like, Mark was flaky. He messed up. He didn't show up when he's supposed to show up. And so Paul's like, dude, I can't bring you with me. Like, my life is in danger here. Like, we're being persecuted for our faith to the point of death.

I need you to be all in or all out. So Paul says, Mark, you can't come with us. And maybe Paul would look back on that decision and say, I was a little too harsh. Maybe Paul would look back on that decision. And if Paul wasn't willing to learn from his mistakes, he could just no longer be willing to mentor younger believers. He'd be like, younger believers, you guys ever been around an old person that, like, has no time or patience with young people? Like, that can happen, right? Like, you can be like, you know what? I tried. They're flaky. They're always on their phones. They're always on that TikTok. Like, I don't have time for that. So I think Paul learned from his mistake because he said, no, like, these difficulties can bring about grace in our lives.

And Mark could have been like, you know what? This isn't worth it. Like, I tried. I failed. I'm not good enough. I'm never going to be good enough. Mark could have given up on ministry altogether and far too often as Christians. We're just way too hard on ourselves. We fail once or twice. We compare ourselves to others and we say, they're just much better at this Christian thing than me. They're much better at this ministry thing than me. I'm of no use. And we end up throwing a pity party for ourselves and we give up. Man, but if we're going to be a people who persevere through difficulty, who end our lives more in love with Jesus than we started, we've got to learn. To learn from our mistakes. Not to dwell on them. Not to be shame ridden or guilt ridden.

But to learn from our mistakes. I love how 1 John 1.9 says, if we confess our sins, God is faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Mark could have stopped ministry. Paul could have stopped mentoring young leaders. But faithful people who preserve, who persevere through trials, they choose to learn from their mistakes rather than to dwell on them. And I just feel like the Lord is leading me to tell you this this morning. There's nothing you could have done in the past that can keep you from being used by God in the future. Don't let yourself be put on the bench. Don't walk off the sidelines of the game and give up altogether because you've made the mistake. Or maybe you've made the same mistake over and over and over again.

There is grace and forgiveness for you over and over and over again. The Bible says that God casts our sins as far as the east is from the west. If we are faithful, if we confess our sins, he is faithful to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Paul, in one of his other letters, says that God chose me the chief of all sinners. Why? He says so that everyone would know that they haven't gone too far. Like, God picked the guy who was murdering Christians to build his church so that every other person under the sun, every other person who would later read Paul's letters would say, I haven't gone too far. I haven't messed up too much. Because God is a God who forgives the murderer and brings him in and makes him a leader.

Let's be a people who learn from our past mistakes. We don't dwell on them. And there's some of us in the room that maybe right now we're struggling with the fact that we've messed up. We've gotten ourselves to a point where we're not really happy with the situation that we're in. And I'll say, just like, take that to the Lord. Confess that to him. Let him lavish forgiveness on you. And move forward. The next principle I think we can learn is found in verse 12 and 13. And if you're a hermeneutics person, when I read this, and then I tell you what the principle is, you'll be really confused for a second. You'll be like, wow, this guy's really stretching it this morning. But I promise it'll make sense here in a second. So in verse 12 and 13, Paul says,

I sent Tychius to Ephesus. When you come, be sure to bring the coat that I left at Carpus of Troas. Also bring my books and especially my papers. I think the third principle we can learn from this really weird passage, I know, track with me, is if we're going to be a people who persevere trials, we have to be a people who don't make lame excuses. We can't make lame excuses. And Paul was at the very end of his life, old, tired, cold, in a dark prison cell. And what does he say? He says, when you come, bring me a coat. I actually have one. I left it in Carpus. That's pretty cool that he's like, hey, I know where my coat is. I'm really going to need that. Also bring with me the Scriptures and especially some blank pieces of paper.

Why? So that he can continue to write letters to his brothers and sisters in Christ to encourage them to continue to follow Jesus. Because following Jesus is worth it. It's worth the prison cell. It's worth the trial. It's worth the difficulty. If anybody could have made an excuse, it was Paul. Listen to his resume. Paul was in prison for his faith multiple times. Countless beatings. Near death. One time he was left for dead. They literally thought they killed him. And they were like, we'll just let the birds eat his body. Stones. Not the kind of stone you're thinking about. Rocks. Literal rocks. He was hit with rocks. Listen to this. Shipwrecked three times. What are the odds? Like, shipwrecked twice and you're like, man, this is a bad day. But shipwrecked three times. And then he literally, like, made his way from a shipwreck onto a deserted island.

Found a couple of natives there and was making a fire to warm himself. And as he reached for the wood, a venomous snake bit him. At that point, I'm like, God, no thank you. Right? Like, I am done. I have persevered long enough. Three shipwrecks and now I'm bit by a snake. Peace out. This is Paul's resume. And if anybody had the opportunity to say, I'm just going to coast for a time. I'm going to move to Florida. Sit in a golf cart somewhere and eat Girl Scout cookies. It was Paul. But at the end of it all, he's still in prison in a dark, cold prison cell. And he says, bring me a coat, bring me my Bible, and bring me some paper because I'm going to finish my life well. I'm going to encourage brothers and sisters in Christ that following Jesus is worth it.

Even in the midst of trials and difficulties, that if you end up falling in love with the things of this world, you're just selling your soul to something meaningless when God offered you something abundant. And it can be really easy for us to look at this and be like, yeah, but he's Paul. Right? Like, he's an apostle. So, like, he's supposed to be built different. He's supposed to have this extra measure of grace. Like, good for Paul for doing this. I'm glad he did it. But if I get to a certain point where, like, it's just too hard, I'm going to give up on all that stuff. I'm just going to focus on, like, being alive. Keeping my kids alive. Right? And I often say this when we talk about, like, my parents' parents' generation.

Like, my grandparents' generation. The World War II generation. Right? I often say, man, they're, like, they're built different. I hear about some of the things they do about, like, Corey told me a story about this. My neighbor who's in that generation who, Corey watched him literally sew his own, like, sew his own stitches. He cut his hand while he was building something. And he was, like, oh, I'm going to stitch myself up with a rusty needle on some string. Right? Like, that's, like, that's the things that they do. And we hear about those things. We're, like, man, they were just built different. I said that this week to my wife. And she corrected me. She said, you know what? I understand what you're saying. But I think, like, if we made the same decisions that they made, if we faced the same circumstances they made,

or they faced and chose to persevere, like, I think what we have inside of us, it's the same thing they have inside of them. We just often choose to use it differently. And I think the same is true with Paul, right? Like, it's really easy for us to look at Paul and be like, yeah, he's just built different. No, like, he's just literally a broken sinner filled with the Holy Spirit. And that's us. Like, we're broken sinners filled with the Holy Spirit. We can persevere. We can not make lame excuses. And if any of us have any reason to make lame excuses, all of us have a reason to make a lame excuse in 2022. Like, God, this pandemic thing, like, it's been a while, and I'm tired.

Life is hard. Things are difficult. I will get back to you when I get a hold of whatever is happening down here. Man, but if we're going to persevere, if we're going to end our lives more in love with Jesus than we started, I think we've got to be with people that say, you know what? Yeah, life's hard. Things are difficult. We're facing trial after trial after trial. But I'm going to keep coming back to the author and perfecter of my faith. I love how 2 Corinthians 12 says it. God says, my grace is sufficient for you. My power is made perfect in weakness. My power is made perfect in weakness. God says, it's at the time when you think you have the most opportunity for an excuse that I can show up and do the most miraculous thing in your life.

It's when you're at wit's end. It's when you feel like there's no more hope for you. It's in that season, in that situation, that if you will humbly come to the feet of Jesus, that his power will be made perfect in your weakness. Faithful people choose to rely on God's strength rather than their own. Don't let lame excuses keep you from intentionally following God in the midst of difficult circumstances. God can use you the most when you feel the least capable or qualified. And oftentimes, it's when we have the most reason for an excuse that we need to acknowledge that. Find somebody next to us and lock arms with them and ask them for help and accountability. I just started working out with our worship leader, Donovan, and both of us are like, it's cold outside.

We'll start working out when it's warm outside. And if it wasn't for Donovan, I would be waiting until it's warm outside. And I don't know this for a fact, but I think if it wasn't for me, he would also be waiting until it's warm outside. But because we both said, like, that's a lame excuse. That's keeping us from getting to the place that we want to be. Let's lock arms and do this thing together. And then we can persevere through this trial together. Let's not be a people that make lame excuses. Let's lock arms with our brothers and sisters in Christ around us. And let's be intentional in those moments when we have the most opportunity to make an excuse. Let's trust God to provide for us in our weakness. Last principle we have this morning.

Found in verse 16 through 18. Paul says, The first time I was brought before a judge, no one came with me. Everyone abandoned me. That means even Luke. Like, Luke is with him. An author of Scripture. A doctor. A powerful leader in the church. Even Luke abandoned Paul. But Paul says, The Lord stood with me and gave me strength so that I might preach the good news in its entirety for all the Gentiles to hear. And God rescued me from certain death. Yes, and the Lord will deliver me from every evil attack and will bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. All glory to God forever. Amen. I think the last principle we can learn if we're going to persevere through trials is not to let fear paralyze us.

Paul was in prison for following Jesus. And he was going to trial. And he should have been killed for his faith the first time. There was no real reason for him not to be executed the first time. And he says, I came before the judge. And other brothers and sisters, they had the opportunity to have my back. They had the opportunity to show up. And they didn't. And I can't help but think the only reason that they would not show up is out of fear. Out of fear of what might happen to them. If they were associated with Paul who was on trial for being a Christian. And I think for us as well, it's really easy for us to be afraid. Be afraid of what other people might think about us. Of how other people's opinions might view the way that we orient our lives.

No one showed up at Paul's trial because they were afraid how it would negatively affect that they would be treated moving forward. And the early Christians definitely had a legitimate reason to be afraid. And how often do we shy away from living in such a way that honors God because we're afraid of what other people might think about us.

We live in a culture that's increasingly anti-Christian. And people are going to look at the way we orient our lives. At the way we handle our entertainment. At the way that we handle our screen time. At the way the decisions that we make that are going to ultimately lead us to fall more in love with Jesus. And people might think we're insane Mormons or Amish people. Like that might happen. We might be afraid of what other people might think about us. But don't let a fear of the judgment of others keep you from living in a way that will allow you to persevere through trials. See the incredible thing about nobody else showing up. As Paul says, when nobody else showed up, God did. God did. And God delivered me from the mouth of certain deaths.

See, Paul thought for sure he was going to die after that first trial. He goes into that trial by himself. No one else around him. And he says, it was in that moment that God showed up. That God delivered me in a miraculous way. And how often, how often do we miss out on God's provision in our life because we're too afraid to do the thing that he's calling us to do? How often are we like, you know what God, like I don't think I'm capable or able to do that thing that you're asking me to do. So by not going, we miss out on God showing up and giving us the strength to do the thing that he's calling us to do. Second Corinthians 4 says, for this light momentary affliction, this trial on earth is preparing us for an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison.

We look not to the things that are seen, to the judgment of this world, but we look to the things that are unseen. So the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. There are things to be afraid of, but they can only hurt us so much. It can only provide temporary pain. But if we persevere, if we seek to obey the Lord above everything else, the rewards are eternal. Paul saw God show up in an extraordinary way because he was faithful through his fears. Let's not let fear of this world keep us from focusing on eternal things.

I'm almost done. We're going to say communion together, but I hope this message is practical. I hope it's encouraging. My heart and my prayer for all of us at Canvas is that we would be a group of people that persevere well. That we end up loving Jesus more at the end of our life than we did at the start. And I think some principles that we can learn from this passage are that if we just keep a close eye on our affections, if we pay attention to what we love and we build in practices that make us fall in love with Jesus more, that at the end of this thing we might be able to persevere through every trial and tribulation that we face. If we learn to learn from our past mistakes rather than to let them define us.

If we don't make lame excuses, if we don't let fear paralyze us. I think these are practical things that we can all learn from. But at the end of the day, these things are hard and we're going to fail. Like we're going to fall short. So I want to end with another goth term. I'll teach everybody a goth term. It's called mulligan. Look to your neighbor if you're socially distancing and say mulligan. Mulligan. If you're not a golfer, you wouldn't maybe know this term. But the word mulligan is, it's a free stroke. It's when a friend that's golfing with you sees how miserable you are at golf, sees how many mistakes you've made over and over and over again and they feel bad for you. And they say, you know what, man? Take a mulligan.

And what a mulligan is, it's a free stroke. It doesn't show up on the scorecard. Mulligans are given to you by friends and they don't end up on the scorecard. So if you're in here and you're like, Ryan, those principles are great, but I've been not doing them well for so long that God's probably just so disappointed with me, angry with me, frustrated with me. And our God is a God of mulligan. Jesus is a friend who takes our mistakes off of the scorecard. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 19 says, For God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, mulliganing, no longer counting people's sins against them. Taking it off the scorecard. That's the gospel. That's the Jesus that we serve. He is a friend who takes our mistakes off the scorecard. I think about any of you in the room who have ever taught a toddler how to walk.

I take a couple of steps and they fall. What do you do? You say, how dare you? How hard is this walking thing? Can't you just figure it out already? No. You lovingly pick them up off the ground and they try again. And the next time they get a step or two further and the next time they get a step or two further and before you know it, they're like opening up the fridge and getting their own bowl of cereal. Right? But each time they fall, each time they mess up, the loving parent picks them up with grace and forgiveness. He says, try again. And that's the God that we have. A loving God. Who every time we fall, doesn't look down with shame and condemnation and say, How dare you fall again? He says, just get up.

Keep going. Keep walking. And if you just keep getting up and keep walking, I promise you, by the end of your life, you'll be closer to Jesus than you were before. By the end of your life, you can't even comprehend what you're able to persevere through with the strength of God. Like, there are trials ahead of you that if I told you they were coming, you would just wave the white flag right now. But I promise, if you build into your life the practice of just getting up, trying again, coming back to the heart of the Father, every single time, you'll keep receiving grace, we'll keep giving you strength to move forward, and you can't even comprehend the things that you'll be able to get through with the strength of God if you just choose to obey Him.

So man, what better reminder of the mulligan that Jesus provides us than communion? Communion is a reminder each week that yes, we have made mistakes. We have hit balls out of bounds. We've hit balls into the water hazard. We have failed. Jesus does not count our failures against us. God actually counted all of our failures, past, present, and future, against Jesus. He took it on Himself. His body was broken. His blood was shed. So that we might persevere. So that we might just have endless grace to just keep giving up and moving forward. We started with that famous verse in Hebrews. I want to finish with it. If you keep following it along, I think it's the perfect place to point us to communion. So therefore, since we are surrounded by a huge crowd of witnesses,

the brothers and sisters who have gone before us, who have messed up and who have succeeded and who we can learn from, let us strip off every weight that slows us down, especially the sin that so easily trips us up. Let us run with endurance. There's that illustration there of us falling and getting back up and running with endurance the race that God has set before us. How? We do this by keeping our eyes on Jesus, the champion who initiates and perfects our faith because He endured the cross, disregarding its shame and now it's seated at the place of honor beside the throne. Think of all the hostility He endured. Think of our example of Jesus. His body broke and His blood shed. Think of what He endured for sinful people. And as you think about that,

you'll persevere. You will not become weary and give up. After all, you have not yet given your lives in the struggle of sin. So, boil all of this stuff down into one sentence. Those who finish their lives faithfully, we're not ashamed to take a few mullings. And that's what communion is about each week. It's a reminder of how much we need Jesus to pay the price for our sins. So, if you're a believer in this room, I'd encourage you, let's take this wafer that represents the body of Christ broken through. Let's drink the juice that represents the blood of Christ shed for us. Let's pray. Father, life can get really difficult. Life on this earth is full of the results of sin. And it can be really easy for us to just get angry and tired

and just give up. God, we're so thankful that you have given us every reminder and opportunity that when we fall, you're there to pick us up, to dust off our clothes and to help us take that next step forward. I pray that, God, we will be a people who learn to just take an extra step each time. Get a little bit further and a little bit further and a little bit further. God, let us be a people that fix our eyes on Jesus, that receive forgiveness every time we feel that we come to you, confess our sins and you're faithful and just forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. God, let us be a people that lock arms with one another, hold each other accountable, point each other to your faithfulness and your goodness

in our life. And at the end of it all, God, let us be a people who know how good you are, who believe it with all of our hearts, who aren't tempted to think that this world has something better to offer. But who know that these light momentary afflictions are nothing to me compared to the eternal weight of glory that you have prepared for us in your kingdom. God, until that day comes, let us just be faithful representatives of your kingdom. Let us get to a place where we end our lives well and we stand before you and we hear your voice say, well done. Good and faithful son, daughter of the king, enter into the rest that I have prepared for you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.
