POURED OUT: Why Church Membership?
2023-06-12
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P0gnCLvlew0

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for having something to settle ourselves in. You'll see how we do it for me. Hey, if you're new or newer to our church, we just finished up a series that we started in Easter. And I just like give you a peek behind the curtain. And we've got Dr. Moon coming next week. And then we had a four-week series talking about our new membership process. Again, if you're new or newer than we were, two churches less than a year ago. And by God's grace and through the power of the Holy Spirit and the humility and kindness of so many of you, we became one church. And that has lots of logistical difficulties that, again, by God's grace, we have overcome about as smoothly as humanly possible to this point. And that last real obstacle is creating a new membership around our kind of unified mission vision values.

And that's kind of what the rest of the summer is going to be about. And I've had this one week kind of in between 47 last week and this documentary and then membership. And I was trying to think, like, what is it that the Lord might have him to kill him? And really, the emphasis of the membership series in a couple of weeks is, what is membership? And I thought that we were really missing a crucial of peace in many, possibly. And that is the answer to the question, why do we even have membership to begin with? Some of those churches don't have membership. In other words, they do. It's a very small, short group of people. And so why do we as a church, why did we choose this model? So this model where you, any of you who are followers of Jesus, can kind of join our church and have input in how it works.

And so that's really my goal this morning is to answer that question. And the next really few weeks, this is just a warning, might feel like a little bit of insider baseball. Like, if you're just coming here to get encouraged from the word of God and sing some songs, and you're like, this awe seems to get perfect to me. Before this, all seems all day, like, I thought because I attended a church, I was a member of a church. I thought that was it, right? Like, some of you might be here thinking about it. Or maybe you didn't know that churches had membership. Or maybe you think membership isn't a biblical concept. Or maybe you think it's an administrative need, but five Sunday mornings seems like a lot of time to talk about membership, right?

Well, one of the reasons we're talking about it for five weeks is it's summer time. And if we don't talk about it for five weeks, we'll talk about it for three weeks. And one of you will miss all three Sundays and say, what is this membership thing we've got going on? No, I'm just kidding. But I would say this. In a world full of unhealthy churches, failing church leaders, and a culture that is completely skeptical about the value that churches play in our society, membership is our spacecraft. It's the way that we ensure we remain focused on the things that we claim to value. It's the mechanism by which we hold one another accountable to God's word and to our own love for one another. So, although on the surface the next few weeks might seem a bit corporate or unnecessary,

I hope by the end of it that we cast a compelling vision for you of why this all matters. Why it matters not just to our church, but why it matters to God. So, let's pray, and we'll try to make a question for the rest of the time. Lord, we are so grateful for the letters that you have gathered together in the New Testament to give us wisdom about how to be a church in a culture that is pursuing its own desires. God, we join with the church throughout history, with the people of God throughout history, as a minority group of people living in a culture that is pursuing its own desires. And God, we seek to do that with integrity, with humility, with unconditional love to those that are our neighbors and our friends

that don't see you as valuable. May we join together in love and sacrifice. May we understand the importance of doing life together with committed followers of Jesus, committed to the local church, for the glory of God and the good of our neighbor. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. This might come as a stop to some of you. I know for a fact there are at least two people in the room that I won't come as a stop to unless you have my plans to attend this church. But I was a very stubborn, strong-willed child. I always had to be around the adults. Anytime my family had, like, a social gathering, the kids would play, and the kids were in video games, would be outside of Genesis, I don't think myself. And I wanted to be in the room with the adults.

I felt like I had any play and any things that contribute to the adult kind of a little space to me. And I distinctly remember, and this is one of my kind of core memories, one of my first memories of the child, I think I was five or six, where I had become set up with my kind of core decision-making for my life.

Obviously, I knew better than they did. And so I was going to take matters into my own hands, and I was going to run away. And I distinctly remember packing a bag, declaring my intentions, and marching out the back door off of the back desk. I'm getting about 50 to 60 yards out of my backyard before reality setting came out. What was I going to do next? The plan was great. Right? Like, the tension was there. I have a better plan for my life than my parents do. But 50 to 60 yards out the back door, I realized, I don't know what's next. And so I was too stubborn to immediately turn around, but too wise to go. It seems further than the way through my house. So I remember sitting down by a tree and just wondering, how did I get here, and what do I do next?

And I think that this story illustrates the tension that many of us have with organized structures of religion and accountability in our lives. We live in a culture that glamorizes the idea of packing our bags and going out our window. But far too often, I don't think we consider the implications of those decisions before we make them. What will we do when we leave? And there's reason really the only option, or is it the best option? So I think we live in a cultural phenomenon obsessed with independence. I heard a British evangelist say that it's really hard to preach the gospel of the kingdom of God to Americans because they were just the idea of society. Right? Like, our cultural foundation is we're not paying those taxes. It's a well, and we're going to do our own thing our own way.

And so we live in this culture where we glamorize individualism. And it's particularly the church. I hear the phrase often, I love Jesus, but I'm not really interested in the church. Or I'm a follower of Jesus, but I'm not really interested in going to church. And as I seek to make a case for church membership this morning, what I don't plan on saying is that the church is present. That we're really trusting it. And that you should just be quiet and follow along. That's not what I plan on saying. As a matter of fact, I think there are plenty of unhealthy, bad forms of the church that are worth poking holes in and sometimes even walking away. However, I reject the idea that walking away is the only legitimate option, or even the best one.

And I think the Jesus that we claim to follow would reject that idea as well. See, the church is the bride of Christ. It is the mechanism that he chose to reveal his redemptive spring to the world. He's not caught off guard by our brokenness. He's not caught off guard by our existing indirections that he never called us to walk in. But no matter how flawed the church is, he promises that he will continue to use her as his friend until he retains. So, what if instead of walking away from this God-ordained community that we call the church, what if we committed to dig our heels in and become part of the solution? What if we decided instead of investing in energy and complaining about all the ways he failed us in the past, what if he invested that standing on my own energy and helping him get back on the side?

As a pastor of this church, here's what I know to be true. I think I know to be true. Those of you that are most tempted to walk away from the church, because of bad experiences, because your ideology is because you see something different in the description than the direction of the church, those of you that are most tempted to say, I've tried it, I've worked hard, I've done all the things and I just can't do it anymore. Those of you that are most tempted to walk away are those that are most vital to being a part of the solution that we've been for. It's different ideas, different perspectives that help us hold each other accountable towards the love of God's self and what we've seen in the life of Jesus Christ. This is why we have membership at Kingdoms Community Service.

And we're hopefully going to unveil how it works a little bit more in the future. But this is why we have that we've intentionally structured our membership moving forward to give committed followers of Jesus opportunities to give input and accountability to our worship. I'd summarize it this way, membership is a practical way that we intentionally create a Christ-centered community committed to doing life together for the glory of God and the good of our life.

And here's some of you pushing back. Some of you might have said, yeah, Ryan, the church, the gathered group of believers, they are what you said. The church is a Christ-centered community getting lives together for the glory of God and the good of our members. But why do we have to have membership if the church is that? Let me say this. I love when you guys ask questions on my online place. So, thank you for asking those questions. It's a great question. Why do we have membership? If the church is gathered believers, forming a Christ-centered community, committed to living for the glory of God and the good of our members, why do we have to have membership? I'd say, if we were in first century Rome, we wouldn't need church membership. Because the very fact that you showed up to a church service declared that you were a committed follower of Jesus.

There was no other cultural value that you would get from showing up to church because it was such a persecuted group of people. It was a minority on the outskirts of society. And so, if you showed up to a church, you would most likely have been baptized in front of that group of people. Everyone knew that you were a member of them. But we don't live in some century Rome. We live in a culture that was kind of built on neo-Christian values. And so, this church has made itself into the fabric of our society. And there's plenty of reasons why you might be finding yourself at our service this morning and yet not be a committed follower of Jesus, that's committed to our church. And that's wonderful and great. Let me work us through a couple of reasons why you might be here this morning.

That might mean you're not a committed follower of Jesus from the church. First, you're spiritually curious. It's very possible that you're here for the first time, or you've been attending for a while, because you're just considering your claims as Jesus in the teachings of the Bible. Might the Bible actually be the living word of God? Might Jesus actually be the Son of God who offers salvation to the world? You're considering those things. Maybe you came across a podcast or a good book that caused you to challenge your crucifixions. Or maybe you have a co-worker or a friend that won't leave you alone, and so you're just here so much stuff out. Or maybe you're an undercover journalist infiltrating this weird Christian cult so that you can let it hit yourself. Whatever the reason you find yourself in this room, if you are spiritually curious, let me say I am, and we are glad that you are here.

We work hard to be a place where people can come and explore the considerations of the Bible, explore the teachings of Jesus. Whatever curiosity brings you to our church, I want you to know that we're glad you're here. Because let's be honest, like, those of us that grew up here, we sometimes forget because we've been doing it for so long. It's just like a room.

Church can be weird sometimes. Like, we all just stand up at one time instead of singing, and the people that haven't ever been to a church before are going, how did they know we were supposed to stand up? How did they know we were supposed to sit down? Like, and we just do these weird things, and, like, people don't understand what's going on. And so we try our best to kind of eliminate as many of those obstacles as possible for those of you that are spiritually curious, so that you can come in and get your real questions into it, and not just get more questions added to the list of you. The Scriptures actually challenge us, those believers, to always be ready to give an answer to you about the hope that we have in Jesus.

And so we're thrilled that you're here. And we want to always be ready to give you that answer. The reality is membership reason for you. And that's fun, and it's good. And so how do we distinguish between those of you that are spiritually curious and those of you that are committed followers of Jesus committed to our local church? Membership leads that mechanism. It's actually a really cool story, piece of history, actually, in 1st and 3 Roman, 1st, 2nd, 3 Roman, that I've been looking for a reason to put into my sermon for, like, years now, and I've finally sounded like it's good. And there was a Roman official that was in charge of making some judgments over some Christians in, like, 100 AD Rome. Pliny, I said plenty, but I can't correct the man, I might say something.

Pliny the younger. And he was, like, trying to figure out what was going on with this group of Christians. What are they doing? Why are they, like, doing what they're doing? And he wrote down a letter to one of his commanding officers, and thankfully he did what I said maybe some of you are in here doing, which is he went undercover and said, God, what's up with these weird Christians? What are they doing? This is what he said. The sum and substance of their fault, this is what's wrong with them, or their error, is that they were accustomed to meet on the fifth day before dawn, then responsibly of him to Christ as to a God. They say this point of Jesus like his God. This is weird for this guy. And to bind themselves by oath, not to commit fraud, theft, or adultery,

not to falsify their trust, nor to refuse to return their trust when called upon to do so. When this was over, it was their cause for them to depart. So before work, they got together and made an oath that they would be people of integrity and sacrificial love. This is incredible. And then afterwards, they were practicing food. They would take up the word supped, ordinarily, eating food. I therefore postpone the investigation and hasten to consult you. So the matter seemed to me to warrant consulting you, especially because of the number involved. It's a growing number of people that are doing these things to things. For many persons of every age, bringing from both sexes will be in danger. So the contagion of this superstition is prepared not only to the citizens, but also the variables and the values.

This is the early church fulfilling God's vision for them. Living in such a word that this is what they're going to be saying about them. They get together and they sing hymns to Christ as if he's a God. And they're taking us to be above a part and having poverty and sacrificial love. Unfortunately, if you happen to be here and you're a member of a journalist, I'm not sure that that's what you would describe us as. I hope so. That's our goal. But imagine if this was what the community said about the church and the city. And we are a Greek of people who regularly meet together to pursue obedience to the needs of Jesus. Share meals together and counter-culturally love us to the needs. And I know this is important because the guided group of believers should hold on to a ton of their people.

Just manage us to get through. And you shouldn't have to be undercover to just come in and analyze them. We should be able to know who's here because they're committing to this thing. We should be able to know who's here because they're just so curious. So, members of this kind of all right now, this thing we're so seeking. There's another reason you might be here. And not being a committed follower of Jesus is committed to a local church. Maybe you're just a spiritual consumer. I don't know. If I ask that Jesus is like a curse word to, like, guilt at people, it's not how I'm using you today. Just so we know, I'm using this in a positive sense. It's very possible that you're a non-Christian. I'd actually talk to some of you non-Christians who are here because you like it casual.

You want your spiritual environment and your spiritual services to add value to your life and make you feel good. Or you want your kids to grow up with a more foundation. We're glad you did. I will, we will regularly remind you that the claims of Jesus call you out of consumerism and into a committed personal relationship. Like, the value that you have, there's so much more value to be had if you would submit your wealth to the works that the leadership of Jesus. Like, like, you've got to make that decision on your own. And so, I'm not going to, like, say, like, hey, you're a consumer, get out. No, keep coming. And we'll keep encouraging you with the messages of Jesus and hopefully one day we'll submit to Jesus. But until that day, please, join us.

Serve along the side of us. Help us bless our community. Take members of something for you. Maybe you're a Christian consumer. Again, I promise I'm not judging you. Shopping around to find the church that does fix this area. I love this church. Like, as much as I can love anything, the people in this building that have blessed my life, the stories that I could tell you as people showed up in my life when I was going through the worst difficult times of my life. I love this church, and I want this church to be your church. But there's plenty of good reasons why this church might not be your church. There's plenty of reasons why you might not align with some of our secondary theological positions, or you might not like our ministry philosophy strategies.

And that's what it can be. There's plenty of other great churches in our community. And so I would say this, take your time, investigate, have important questions, ask the necessary questions of me and our leadership. And if we end up not being a great church, that's okay. But I would encourage you to find a church that you can be committed to for the long haul. Because I believe if you're a committed follower of Jesus, you should be committed to a local church. It's God's ideal for you and for your family. So that's why we have membership. So we can separate these categories of people. It's okay if you're in the first two categories and you're here. We're actually extremely glad you're here. But we need to have a framework, a system that allows us to identify those of you who would say,

I'm a committed follower of Jesus, committed to this local church. I can hear something like, no. Go wrong. Can I be a committed follower of Jesus to a committed local church without going through some... stale membership process? Again, I'm glad when you guys ask questions. I'm about to answer in my online. Thank you so much. Kind of. Right? Like, yeah, you can be committed to our local church, but apart from, like, you declaring that intention to us and us, like, holding one another accountable to that division, it's really easy for you to drift away, to go, to read for some lame reason or some good reason and not tell us about it. Things that we can learn from, because you saw something about a church that you didn't like, and instead of committing to, like, making it better, you just said, I don't like that.

I'm reading it. I think we'd, like, we want you to be a part of it or another local church that you can... And here's the thing. None of us are perfect. None of us. Like, I could point to six, seven, eight, nine churches that go, right? My friends are past years old, and I would say, that is an excellent church that you can go to. I would love for you to go to it. But they're also going to do something that you don't like. Or they're going to step into something. Or they're going to do something, and you're going to look at the Scriptures and say, I thought the Scriptures said this, but they're doing it this way.

This is a big book. You'll find something you don't like about one of these local churches. And so rather than just kind of being committed, and then when somebody does something you don't like, you read, what if you like? Except you're here with them. And you've had difficult conversations with your church readers, and you made us better, and we made you better. And that was better for our community in the community of God all over you. So, there's another group of people in this room that I want to acknowledge you because I think it's really important.

And I know some personal experience because I've been there. And that was there some of you in this room that are committed followers of Jesus who want to commit to the local church. But the local church has hurt you badly. Either really badly once, or a lot comes over and over and over again. And I know that you're here because it's happened to me. Church talent and betrayal was the catalyst for me going to canceling. Like, the people that I loved the most, that I looked up to the most, respected the most, that I thought I was going to do the rest of my life, were the people that hurt me the most. And so, I get it. I don't want you to rest through that pain. I don't want to whitewash it and say, well, the Bible says you should be committed followers,

you should be committed to the local church, so get over it and join or go find another church to join. It's not what I want to say. I want to stick in your pain with you. Empathize this view. And I just ask you this question. What if, like, giving up on deorganized church isn't the only action? What if it isn't even the best action? What if you let God use your past pain to benefit his bride moving forward? What if you are a piece of a puzzle that God is going to use to help us become a healthier version of ourself? I get it. I get it. Take your time. We're glad you're here, sir. But membership is the way for us to signify that we're ready to commit to this local body, knowing it's not perfect, and knowing that I'm probably going to fail you,

that our leadership is probably going to fail you, that other members are probably going to fail you. If we don't have a system set, we're all broken people.

Because Jesus can use us in one another's lives, even though that's true. So, in summary, membership is a practical way to allow people to identify these committed followers of Jesus, committed to a local church. I, personally, hope for all of you that you would decide to be committed to a follower of Jesus. I know some of you aren't there yet, and that's okay. But if you are there, I would encourage you to get to a place where you can commit to a local church, whether it's ours or somewhere else. Again, if you're spiritual curious, we're so glad that you're here. Keep asking questions. Keep pointing out things that are weird when we do them, because we don't know that they're weird. And we don't want to be weird for you. Like, there's actually a pastor in some paintings where Paul tells the drinking church like,

You guys are being really weird. And, like, sometimes people show up to your church and they're really confused because you guys are really weird. And here's the thing, like, we don't always know when we're being weird. So, like, tell us. We need your help. If you're a spiritual consumer, we hope our churches are blessed and clear life, but we hope even more that you would come into a committed relationship with the God of the universe, Jesus Christ. And then you would find a community of local believers that you can do life with for the long haul. Go to the Bibles. We turn to 1 Peter 2. This is where we're going to kind of run into the frame. I know some of you in here realize you've been ending up in the Bible in 25 minutes.

Hopefully, you heard biblical truth throughout the last 25 minutes, but just in case you didn't, we're going to go to 1 Peter 2. 2 Peter 2. So, I'm going to conclude that. Again, membership is a practical way that we need to constantly create a Christ-centered community committed to doing life together for the glory of God and the good of our members. I chose the word community, which is a suitable word. It's a good word. The Bible uses a couple other words or images from what it should look like. The Bible uses the language of Scripture to the family, that we are bounding together by our relationship with Jesus, that we are brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, grandmothers, uncles, the gifts that we come together with unique strengths and unique abilities, and we form a really awkward, weird experience because of our connection to Jesus.

Part of the reason I was in so much caffeine this morning is because I got home last night at midnight from a family wedding, and here's the deal. It wasn't even my family. It's my wife's family. Except, guess what? It was my family. It's just my wife's family. It is my family. I am bound to my relationship with my wife, and when I got married to my wife, I inherited an entirely different group of people. And although they're not my family, mess with them and see. Because they are my family. And guess what? The wedding that I went to was Marissa's cousin, and so she got married to a guy that, apart from my relationship with Marissa, probably never would have even been in the same state as this guy. And now he's my family.

Mess with them and see. Right? Why? Why is this guy that I never would have even found myself in the same state with my family? We're bound to a relationship with Jesus. And so the Scriptures use this language as Church's family because each one of us that have a relationship with Jesus, we're bound to Jesus. And because I'm bound to Jesus and Church's bound to Jesus, we and Kent are bound together. Mess with them and see. I'm going to pass with us, so it won't be too bad. But, mess with them and see. So the Scriptures use this language, Church's family. The use of the language, Church's the flock of God, that we are full of sheep, full of sheep, all following the same shepherd, who's leading us through paths of righteousness for his name's sake,

for our good, for our name is given to the glory of God. Use of the Scriptures, a body, that we're all unique members of a body, fingers, hands, toes, feet, knees, ankles, hips, and that we're all joined together around Christ who is on head. Again, we're bound together because we're bound to Christ. It's all of these beautiful images, but 1 Peter 2 has one that I particularly like. And that's the Church as the temple of God. Let's read it. 1 Peter 2, starting in verse 4. Jesus says to the early Christians, You, who are coming to Christ, who is the living cornerstone of God's temple, who is rejected by people, but he is chosen by God for great honor. And you are living stones, that God is building into a spiritual temple. What's more, you are his holy priest.

In the medication of Jesus Christ, you're offering the spiritual sacrifices that please God. As the Scripture said, I am placing a cornerstone in Jerusalem, chosen for great honor, and anyone who trusts in him will never be disgraced. Yes, you who trust in him, recognize the honor that God has given him. But those who were just saying, the stone that's a gate is rejected, he's now going to be told in the cornerstone. He is the stone that makes people stumble, and the rock that makes people stumble. It's not only a family or a flock or a body, but we are a temple. Unique stones, different colors and shapes and sizes, all coming together to form a temple. One what? Who is our foundation? Who is our cornerstone? We are coming together. I love this image so much.

God is bringing each of us together as unique individuals to be built into the temple of God. This is why it's so important that we're not just committed to Jesus, but we're also committed to one another. Because what kind of a structure can be built with two or three stones? Not much of one, right? It's like, me, I'm hooked up to the fourth son of Jesus, but your other son is get away from it. I don't like it. You guys are weird, and you're doing some fun like, no, we all are joining together on the foundation that is Jesus. It's superficial love. That's how this whole thing works. It works because our foundation is the one who literally laid down his life for our benefit. And if we all choose to follow his example and lay down our lives for the benefit of others,

we form this temple, this living temple. And what's the purpose of the temple? To help people experience the God that the temple was built for. So as we join together on the foundation of Jesus Christ and his sacrificial love, we form this temple that allows people in our community to experience the God who's joined us together in Christ.

picture of, like, Legos, right? How many of you love those things that we have? Some, how many? Does anyone have that, like, $1,000 Star Wars thing? That's awesome. That's awesome. I want to see it. So Legos in a box, right? Incredible amount of potential. It says, like, they're meant to be joined together to see something epic. Thanks, Pastor Michelle. It's anybody in the church through Legos and her son got this dragon. This is epic. Also, I realized after I asked her to bring this that the dragon is, like, a symbol for the Antichrist, so don't read into this. Don't read into the illustration too much. God is not forming us into the Antichrist. This is something epic that I don't like this. So, different shapes, colors, sizes all coming together to build something like this.

But, what do Legos do on a map? You guys didn't even give time for suspense. The parents in the room were like, damage, damage is caused by Legos on their own. Separate from one another. They're not being built into an epic structure.

And so, what is in it, not on purpose? Because I know you guys and girls. I don't think you're doing this on purpose, but what is because of individualism being idealized? Because of the culture that says, I love Jesus, but I'm not served by this church. what if we are these living stones with unique structure and skill and color and beauty that are all meant to be built together around the salvation of Jesus Christ, what if instead we are setting ourselves up too thin, too far? Wait for absolutely causing far more damage than things.

And so, when I ask the question to myself, why do we have members for the church? It's a practical framework where we can glean as living stones who are rooted and committed to Christ as our question. And so, what is for us to put all of our people on the table and see what kind of the people that are in this community for His glory and for the good of our neighbor? It's important. It matters far more than we anticipate. And can I just be, I'm going to put the driver down because it's Austin, but can I be brutally honest with you this morning? Of course. I was going to anyway.

Church membership makes my job harder. It just does. Try leading an organization with a couple hundred people and the less people in the room making the decisions, the easier my job is. The more we include people in the room, the harder my job is. I think that's kind of a point because it means me and a couple of people that look like me, smell like me, thoughts like me. Guess what? We're not living stones being built together on the foundation of Jesus. It's a couple of yellow Legos being built into a little yellow square. That's not very beautiful, not very diverse, like that's not really what God intended. And so, I read church leadership books, I listen to church strategy protests, and all of them say, the more people you get input in the room,

the harder it is to make decisions. And yet, I'm willing to walk through those muddy waters with you. If you'll do so, please let you do this. It's not this is the love. We're going to abide for ourselves for one another and for our neighbors. I'm willing to do that because I think it's God's ideal vision for this church. I think this is a good short statement. So we started by asking why do we have church membership in the church. I hope in my prayers I at least give them a compelling answer. You don't have to agree with it, but at least I hope it's been compelling. And I want to end by asking you to consider the second question. How might your life and your community be different ten years from now if you decide to commit to a loop of people who are committed to Jesus?

How might our community be different in your story if we link up as living stones being built on the foundation of Jesus Christ who is the hope of this world? If we allow him to build us into a temple that can show the world around us, your neighbors, your co-workers, your friends, and your family, the hope that we have because of Jesus, how might our community be different? And I acknowledge that no matter how compelling the vision, you still might be like five-year-old me saying, I don't know that I've such these people to make decisions for me. I'm just attacked my passion by doing my own way. And I want to see this morning to consider the implications of that decision.

Imagine going through the darkest seasons of your life now that you're not there. Imagine your kids being raised not just by you and by your spouse but by a network of committed followers and Christians who are committed to your family. Imagine the darkness we might be able to overcome and the injustice we might be able to have right in our community when we come together as individual stones built on the foundation that formed from what Jesus Christ.

this is God's desire for his food. And I don't know about you but as much as I love doing things my own way this sounds like a more rewarding one to live. And I just personally experience it. It won't be perfect but I think it's going to be worth it. So your spirit secure is this is God's vision for his peace. This is his design. This is how he made things to be. That we as individuals would come together so that you might see him through us and I know that we haven't done that perfectly. This church, that church, that church, that church, we're doing our best but we failed. And God chooses to use broken people to be his temple to the watching world. And so if you're here and your spirit secure is

all hope that you see me in this design of our church, that God loves you if you want to listen. If you want to talk about that, come find me, come find one of our views, find the person that annoyed you so much if you said yes, I'm sick. They will love the church. If you're spiritual consumers, whether you're Christian or not in Christian, I hope that we encourage your life, and I hope even more that we challenge you to take your next step of obedience, submitting your lives to the worship of Jesus and to other local Christians. And if you hear your submitted father, Jesus, I hope that you'll consider joining our steps, not because of our Christians, this side of the resurrection or the resurrection of Jesus. Keep your heels in with us.

Hold us accountable to the truth of the Scripture to the example of Jesus. Let us hold you accountable to the truth of the Scripture and the example of Jesus. And if our church isn't the right church, go and teach you. We love you. Come find me. I will help you find the church that you can connect to. It says our church and that church will be better for us. Listen. All right, let's go. Father, I thank you for all of the beautiful imagery that you give us about your church and the Scriptures. I thank you specifically this morning for this imagery of the temple of God being built together as we as living stones come together and formed into this unique temple of God in our community for your glory and for our membership. God,

may we spiritlessly consider the implications of our decision to either be committed to the local church or may we find hearing from the pain of past church. and the strength to keep going because as hard as it is, as painful as it is, the alternative isn't better to use the same way. Amen.
