We Are the Church: The Local Church
2023-07-10
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ybqe9NPQnmo

A resurrendered life, a resurrected life. Lord, I pray in Jesus' name that you would bring a special blessing to Karina and her family as they continue to walk this journey. Father, I pray that you would bless our hearts and our minds and our thoughts and our resurrender on a daily basis that we might receive from your Spirit the manna for today. To live and walk and journey in the name of Jesus. That you'd name that we pray. And all the saints pray. Amen. You may be seated. You may stand up.

It's on a new way out of it. I like it. It was, so I didn't know that song. And you know when you, like, first learn a song and you think you got it and you try to close your eyes and try to look and close your eyes and worry, you know. And when my kids were little, they used to make up words all the time. Like my one daughter created the word organizing, organizing design. And I started singing and I thought it said, instead of resurrender, I thought it said resurrection. And halfway through the word, I realized I wasn't singing what everyone else was singing. But from that point on, I thought, you know, resurrection. It's kind of a, there is a fresh resurrection in our own lives. And we resurrender again, day in and day in.

So we've been walking through a series on critical pieces for those who want to be a partner, partner with this church, a member of this church, a covenant person. As we joined together as a congregation, two weeks ago, we talked about the word. We really do value the word. We rely on the word. It's a standard for faith and practice. It's also a primary means by which we commune and connect with God. He speaks to us. He evaluates and analyzes us through his word. And we get to understand him through his word. Last week, we talked about salvation. Salvation big ass, not just moment in time way back when, but the journey of salvation that we all walked, the past and present and future sense of salvation, and try to talk about all that means.

Today, we're going to talk about the church. I made a comment a few weeks ago, and I saw the comments that most would know, and a few people come up and say, hey, how do you know that? But the word church, a place here in the New Testament, pretty much always, but maybe two places, and those two places are questionable. Almost always, it refers to a local body of Jesus followers. A concrete, concretized group that you can identify. And then, so today, I want to unpack some of what that means. Again, the last two, I did a flyover of the word, a flyover of the salvation. Today, instead of a flyover, I'm going to try to dig down into two illustrations of church that I think will be helpful for us, at least I hope they'll be helpful for us,

as we move forward as a body of Jesus followers. So, the focus today is the local church, and if I can, like I did the last few weeks, I just want to walk through the little piece of membership covenant that we'll be using. I promise to accept biblical instruction, this is the third paragraph in what we're going to do in a bit, I think in a month. And when we say, I promise to accept biblical instruction, it doesn't mean I promise to accept and believe what I've been taught. Ryan, several weeks ago, talked about the difference between the Thessalonians and the Bereans, when the gospel was preached, and the Thessalonians, they resorted to what they always knew to be true, and they lost that. And the Bereans relied on what God had given them in the past,

but they also urged the Scriptures to see if this is true. And that's really the attitude, the mindset, when we say, that I promise to accept biblical instruction, it's that of the Bereans. So, I have a really good friend of medical doctors, he trains medical doctors, he writes a newsletter for medical doctors, I subscribe to his newsletter, and so I get it every, I don't know, if every other week, every week, I'm not sure if it's periodically. And he tends to take two or three medical issues, and go through the research, and then help unpack those aspects of the medical research, and about every third one is something that I understand, and I actually care about, because it has something to do with my own personal health, and my wife, and my kids, and so I just keep up the gate.

Plus, I really believe in investing in various areas of knowledge and understanding, because it makes a more well-rounded person. Anyways, in this last newsletter, he had a psychiatrist who was also a medical doctor, who was talking about his days in medical school, and what he learned, and he said, if we always used to say back to medical school, that 50% of what we teach you will be wrong. We just don't know which 50%. I hope the staffs aren't that guy for theological training, but I can almost guarantee you that much of what, some of what you've been taught in the past, and perhaps some of what you're being taught now, is wrong. We don't know what part that is, and that's why we approach as the brains. The Scripture is our standards. We go back to the Scriptures.

Having said that, would anyone here want a medical doctor that never went to med school? We, of course, must. We recognize that we need trained, and we need taught, and we need trained and taught with a humble attitude toward the data. And in this context, our data is the word of God. And so, that's what we mean by, oh, you do know the word disciple? I realize you've kind of given it, like, churchy jargon. It means something in the church world. But the word disciple literally means learning. A disciple, if so fast though, by definition of the word, is a learning. And so, if you're not a learner, you're not a disciple. Part of discipleship is learning, so that's why we agree to accept biblical instruction. Okay, I'll try to go through a little faster.

I promise to accept biblical instruction and to contribute to a loving and united church family. And that's going to be the crux of what I want to talk about today. But I'll go through the rest of this to explain that key statement, that that's what we do. I promise to accept biblical instruction and to contribute to a loving and united church family through my regular attendance. I like that it says contribuously because much of American Christianity is about what I get by attendance. A really good friend of mine at a Christmas service, Christmas Eve service, one time said, why is it always that after Christmas we go back to school, we go back to our job, we go back to our friend group, we go back to other family that we didn't see. And the first question

that everyone asks is, what did you get for Christmas? He said, it's welcome, you know what I have. What did you get for Christmas? With the same information you want. He said, I hope that we can be, and he said that, and I think it's too fresh too, I hope that we can say, not just, what did you get from a loving church today? What are you going to ask the question, what did you give? What did you contribute? How were you part of the body of Christ that were iron sharpens iron, where we take the multitude of gifts that we've had and serve one another? And when I say church, I'm not talking about the Sunday morning hour and a half when we all gather together. This is the gathering of the church. But you are the church,

and the ministers of the church are really outside of this hour and a half of it. Hopefully there's all kinds of ministries, and so the question becomes, how do we contribute, and in this case, to our regular attendance, and you can unpack it a little bit more, with time, finances, spiritual gifts that God has given you. So I like to say this, people call me what they value. I would say to them, you know what, sell me your date book and your checkbook, and I'll tell you what you're really about. Because where we invest our time, where we invest our money, where we invest our capabilities, our capacities, our abilities, our spiritual gifts, by the way, all of which are given by God, says more about what we value than what we claim that we value.

By the way, if any of you happen to be spiritually gifted in the help of service, you know that it's help and service, it's something you do and you like to do, a real practical application of this message will be show up tonight at 5.15, and help me take down all these chairs and set up tables for the 80 or so people who will be coming tonight. It's a shameless plug. Because otherwise, I'm going to do it all myself and I don't want to do it. But I won't because I know what kind of church you want. Okay. I promise to accept biblical instruction and contribute to a loving and healthy family through my regular attendance with my time, finance, spiritual gifts that God has given me. I submit to supporting the ministries of this church.

By the way, that's what we're doing tonight. Tonight, the goal is to help people either discover or reaffirm or maybe do a little correction on how God has gifted you and wired you. My wife, in our training today, she told a wonderful story of working with someone about their spiritual gifts who had been doing it for 35 years and they knew what their gifts were and as they were getting older, they could no longer do those things the way they used to and they were lamenting it and they were sad about it. And she said, well, let's take a look at these secondary gifts and she listed out the secondary gifts and that began a decking of reorienting how he served the kingdom of God in these secondary gifts that he had to keep the glory

and the capacity and the strength of the wisdom after there's so many years of serving to do it. So, it can be that as well so if you want to discover and if you're one of these people who says, I know all my gifts, I don't need to come. No, no, no, you need to come because you need to help the other people figure it out. That's part of what we do. That's the way it works. Okay. So, that's the covenant. What I'd like to do with that then is really focus on this statement. Conceiving to a loving and united so strongly. I want to do it through I want to do it through two extreme examples. One biblical where it went really bad and one historical where it went really good. but before I do that

I want to re-name this membership stuff and I'm not rebranding that'll be later we're still calling it membership but I had a really interesting conversation actually with Ryan and Jamie talking about language. What's the language that we use? Is membership a good language? What does that communicate? Because for some people that communicates the radio station W-I-I-S-M you know that station? What's in it for me? What do I get out of it? And we love to tune into that and say someone floated the idea of partnership. Does partnership communicate something? But it was not that's a good word but that comes with some baggage too from ways we might not want to look at it. I use for covenant. Do we join? Do we partner? Do we covenant? What does it mean? And you do know

that writing is not I mean one was really nice. I had a good friend who was planting a biker church in Nebraska. He took over an old biker bar and was doing an amazing job planting the church and he realized that he had a lot of new believers a lot of converse who loved Jesus who were excited for Jesus but their biblical knowledge was really lasting. And so he decided we need to teach these people more than what I can give in a sermon. And so he decided to start a Sunday school program and he launched it and he worked feverishly to establish this Sunday school program for a couple months and like two people showed up. He kept pitching it and pitching it and nobody was showing up. So the next week he stood up

and he said look I love you guys you know I made a mistake I launched a Sunday school program it hasn't worked we're not doing it. Done. And that's when he got up and he said so I've really been praying and we're launching a new program on Sunday morning before church because it's hard to get people other nights we're going to start a new program for road warriors and he passed the place out. Same thing. Christian education. It's giving people the word in the way that life can't form it today. And so I've been kind of toying with this whole word and in that meeting I ask well what if we just took the biblical injunction and turned it into a verb because you know the Bible says a whole lot about what we should

do with one another. And so what if we just threw in the verb that we are going to carry these intentionally to one another as the Bible says it. I know you're looking at me like what are you talking about me? Let me just let me read a couple really quick. Be at peace with one another. Watch one another's feet. Love one another. Love one another. Love one another. That one comes up over and over and over again. Be devoted to one another in brotherly love. Honor one another above yourselves. Learn in harmony with one another. Instruct one another. Greet one another. And this one says with a holy kiss I think we can contextualize that as a warm and ready for handshake. But greet one another. Love one another. By the way, you do know

it's really hard to do any of these while you're all looking up at me in the back of each other's heads. Is that fair? It's really hard. This is important. It's a critical piece of our collective life. And we're thrilled that if people come to hear the word and to worship together and to receive communion and experience public baptism and all of those things, that's awesome. That somehow these one another is that the Bible is very clear that we're to do. If we're going to be the church, at least the biblical concept of the church, a local body that acts like the called Alphardus the Ecclesia, then we definitely need to find ways to do these things. Galatians 6, verse 2, Caring each other's burdens. Be patient. Bearing with one another in love. There's that word again.

Forgiving each other. And by the way, today I hope with the positives and the negative examples, the biblical and the historical, that we'll see where this didn't go well and the outcome and where this went unbelievably well and the outcome. Before forgiving one another. Submitting to one another. That is reverence for Christ. Wow, there's a big one. Submission is not a world that we in America like very much. The Bible loves it. There's a sense of submitting to one another. Deferring to one another. In humility, consider others better than yourself. Bear with each other. Monish one another. Make your love increase and overflow. Encourage one another. Build each other. Are you getting the concept? I'm only thinking about every story that's on my list and I still have about 20, 30 more to get. And by the way,

the end of the list is again, eight times, love one another, love one another, love one another. You've heard the story about the Apostle John who was a big one and love one another. At the end of his life, old man is one of the, it's one of the only apostles we think that actually got to live to an old life. The rest of them all died tomorrow's death. And at the end of his life, they asked him, you know, all of these years that you have served the Lord Jesus, all of these years that you have walked and you have ministered to the church that we know is coming to an end. Teach us something that we need to know. Give us, give us what's a French one. And you looked at it and you said,

love one another. Love one another. It's what becomes a French one. Okay, I don't think I need to listen anymore of those. I think you get it. If not, human-ass words and I'll beat you so much. Okay, so let me give you two quick examples. The first is from 2 Samuel and it's the story of Ahithophel. There we go. 2 Samuel 16.23. Now, in those days, the advice of Ahithophel, the advice of Ahithophel, was like that of one who requires of God. That was how both David and Absalom, Absalom's son, David's son, regarded all of Ahithophel's advice. Ahithophel was considered a godly man who the king looked to for advice and it was a story that went incredibly fast in the worst possible way. Those of you who know your Bible well, you know that King David

was a man after God's own heart. He loved God. He wrote a lot of the Psalms. He loved the kings. He was a great king. And he also was the father of an incredibly dysfunctional family. Or an incredibly dysfunctional family. And we're going to share some of the dysfunction that went on in his family. But my first takeaway on this, by the way, is that you can be an incredibly godly person and still have an incredibly dysfunctional family. And I hate to say this, but if you have an incredibly dysfunctional family, you're probably a contributor to that in some way.

And you can still be an incredibly godly person. There is this, I don't get it, but it's true. My favorite, like a little meme or one little cartoon, is this huge auditorium. And in this huge auditorium, there's three people in the whole auditorium. And on the back of it is this big band and it's an annual gathering of adult children of non-dysfunctional families. So a few of us have a vacant. Well, so how dysfunctional was his family. Absalom, this guy, he had a sister named Tomah and one of David's other sons, Absalom's half-brother, raped Absalom's sister Tomah. Absalom did not handle it well. And non-definitely, he was a perpetrator. But David did not handle it well. As if the fellow you'll see did not handle it well. The only person in the Scriptures that I think

handled it well was the victim, Tomah. She was, she's part of the only hero of the story. The rest in the midst of their dysfunction, things just got worse. So we're going to hear the story of how David's son, Absalom, decided that David was no longer going to be king and that he was going to take over. And then David's old age, probably in 60s, Absalom had garnered enough support and came in and David had to flee Jerusalem with a group of loyal followers. And just like in the beginning of his ministry when he was anointed king, but he was still hiding out in the desert hiding in a cave from his father-in-law. Now he's out in that same desert hiding in some of the same caves from the sun who's taking over his nation.

I can't imagine when a crew is enacted by your own town. I can't imagine the motions of it. Interesting to me, by the way, if you ever want to do a fascinating study, many of our psalms, there's like a little line before the psalm that tells you the historical context of the psalm. And FYI, those little context things, we believe they were actually part of the original. So many of those contexts, unlike the rest of your Bible which has like little context, like little headlines and headers telling you the situation, those are actually in the Scriptures. And so there's the part of the inspired word of God. And so we can rest assured on some of, and not all of them have context, but some of them have very clear context about who's saying it and what's

the context in which he's saying it. And it's a fascinating study to read David's psalms that he wrote when he was being chased by his father-in-law at the beginning of his ministry, which is that. But then also those ones that he wrote at the end of his life when he's being chased by his son. He's being king, and he's being removed, and he writes these psalms. And what's fascinating, you do the study, read it, this is like extra credit for all of you. These over here, David is like, oh! And over here, he's like, God, I have a problem, and I know you're good. This is incredible, emotional stability having walked with God for so many years, and so many ups and downs, and all of his function of family, all of his function of

life, and staying faithful to God in the midst of it, repenting when he's caught, not just excusing his stuff, but repenting, hearing it publicly, that David to a place where even in a worse situation, he could have a fine confidence that God still didn't control us. And he still did it. This psalm, we don't know the exact context of this one, it doesn't have that little, you know, Psalm 55-0, it doesn't have that voice, but we know it's a psalm on David's betrayed, and many commentators think that this phrase is actually David talking about Epiphany, this prophet of God, this kingly counsel, who David relied on, and as you see in the story, it's going to betray David, it's going to turn on David. David writes that it is you, a man like myself, my

companion, my close friend, with whom I once enjoyed sweet fellowship at the house of God as we walked among the worshipers, and then the rest is about who I do, and I said it. Listen, Phil didn't handle it super way. Okay, next voice. So, we're going to continue the story. Philip was offering sacrifice, so the context of the story, Philip is marched into Jerusalem, he's taken over the kingship, David has run, David is gone, now he's having sacrifices offered to anoint him as a new king, letting all of Israel know that I'm now in charge, David's no longer in charge, and while Philip was offering the sacrifice, he also begs for a hippopotam. He begs for this counselor of king David, to come from his hometown, and so the conspiracy gained strength, and absolutes kept

following, kept on increasing. A hippopotam was summoned, a hippopotam came, and a hippopotam joined the two. Okay? Okay, next thing. So, a hippopotam is now giving absolute counsel. What should I do? I've taken over the kingship, we didn't get the king, the king ran, he hiding with some of his mighty men, and he still, he still are, he still has some followers, but I'm now in charge, what should I do? And a hippopotam says, well, here's what I want you to do, Aslan. I want you to take a tent and put it up on the top of the palace, so all Israel can see the tent, and one by one by one, all of David's concubines, I want you to parade them up to the tent, go into the tent with them, and let all Israel

know that you're sleeping with David's concubines. Now, there's a different era, we don't have concubines today, so let us understand that please. I don't know how long they took, but David know a lot of them. We're talking day upon day upon night upon night upon night shaming, shaming, shaming, who are succinct in front of all of Israel. Now, I don't think they saw what was in the tent, but it's not hard to drop. It was intentional, destructive. That's a fitness cell's first piece of advice, destructive piece of advice. And this is also excellent. I will choose 12,000 men and set out tonight in pursuit of David. I would accept him while he was weary and weak. I would strike him with terror. And then all the people with him were free, and I'll strike him

down for you. And this is our first recommendation is saying David by sleeping with all of his concubines so all of the followers of King David can see what is going on. And second, let me take a whole bunch of people and go out and slap them down and let me kill them. That's one of David's spiritual advisors. How do you have done so far in the South place that? How do you help me? How do you understand it? How do you understand it? I want to see if I can give you a little insight into how that happened because it's an extended dysfunctional family reality going on here. Except in Samuel 11, 3, he tells us that Bathsheba, and you remember the story of Bathsheba? She was a young woman who was outside bathing at a

time when women bathed outside and men didn't go up on roofs. I was just up at my mom's house for the 4th of July, and my daughter and husband came in, and my brother and his wife and a 16-year-old daughter came in, and my other daughter came in, and my mom has this beautiful house, and many of us would like downstairs, but upstairs is just a huge room, multiple beds, and we just go swept up there as a group. But when you're all asleep, when your kids are this big, it's really easy. But when your kids are adults, they're dynamic to change a little bit. And so before you come up the stairs, I'm coming up, honey, and is it okay? When you get up, I would get up at like 5 in the morning, and I'd

want to go downstairs and do stuff, and you're over there sleeping, and I'd just kind of like duck down behind the bed, and change out of my pajamas, and put them up. It's just irrespectful. If someone is putting it in the bathroom, you kind of turn around and get yourself busy with something else. Oh, that's the way it was when the women gave, and the Scripture tells us that in the time when kings go to war, David was at home. The state one. The state two, he went up on top of the roof. I'm on board. I'm going to go up on the roof. That's kind of the dark internet of the day, I guess. He sees Bathsheba. He calls for Bathsheba. He sleeps with Bathsheba. And Bathsheba gets pregnant. And quite frankly, with the

power differential between the king and Michelle woman, I don't think it was too financial. I don't know. I don't know. But it was a gross violation. And then, when she gets pregnant, he stands for her husband, who is actually out at war, where David was supposed to be, to come on back. His plan was Uriah would come back, sleep with his wife, and no one would know the difference. And when Uriah came back, Uriah said, no, I can't do that. I mean, if my men are out there fighting and suffering, I can't go and enjoy all of these meals and all this time with my life. He said, guards in the garden. And after the second, David actually got him in and got him drunk, hoping that might work. And after the second or third

night, he's like, okay, that's not going to work. And so he said, Uriah back to the front with a letter saying, please give this letter to the general. When the general got the letter, he read it, and what it said was, when you're in the heat of a battle, put Uriah in the very front. When Uriah is engaged in battle in the front, grab the rest of your people and pull them back. It was a plan of murder. This is David's worst point. Believe it.

So here we have in 2 Samuel 11, 3, Bathsheba is the daughter of Eliam. And in 2 Samuel 23, 34, Eliam is the son of Ahithophon. In other words, Bathsheba was his game daughter. Now, we don't know the exact time study, but people much wiser than me who study much more than I do. In his old question and survey, James Smith says that probably David was 58 when he violated Bathsheba. And when Ahithophel advised Absalom, David's son, to do these things, David was probably 64. So six years after violating Bathsheba, Ahithophel soothing the opportunity, goes and joins the crew, and his two pieces of advice are due to David what David did to my granddaughter and grandson. sexually violate and murder. Take a piece of thought from a family. Folks, you can get a way out of it.

Calvary 4, verse 23, says, Above all us, go to heart. Because everything else flows from it. I used to do a lot of wound work with, psychological, spiritual wound work with pastors. And we used to try to get them to get to their place of wounding and meet Jesus in that place of wounding. because a wound that is not transformed gets to the spread. That when we don't deal with our stuff, our stuff just kind of eeps out into everyone else. It's the angry man that yells at someone else, you're just so angry! And all they're doing is suggesting. They're suggesting their own issues out there that they can't deal with anything here.

Folks, the fault point is contingent. And you're not immune. And the vaccine for wounding and the contingent of wounding is to one another. It's to intentionally in the presence of God say, I will forgive you. I will bear your burden. I will choose to love you. Now, I realize it's not a terminal challenge. It's not a terminal challenge. But only by allowing ourselves to stand before God and realize, first of all, how far we have violated God. How we need real forgiveness. And we ever get to a place to be able to say, I don't forget it, I forgive it. I'm not going to let you violate me again that way. I'm just getting buried down this. But I already need to forgive you. Because this is a story of dysfunctional family going really, really,

really, really into it. The truth is folks, most of us are wounded in community. And God has so designed it with our feelings that generally comes in the community. It's when we find new episodic encounters with God and with brothers and sisters and community that can begin to get at that stuff that drives us, that God sees why, the Scriptures of pull of we do one another. One another is not just about what he did for you, but it's about in that actually what God does in me. Look how God begins to change me. I can't tell you how many people I've played with change in the midst of praying honestly if they were changed, God changed me. You know, it's the old Mason to David, he tells him a story, David to Paul, a second,

and Mason says, you're that man. And then David writes Psalm 51, against you and you only have I sinned and none of you don't in sight. Do not take me from your presence. do not take me from your presence. It's incredible for patience. So the story only gets worse. It's the last piece of the story I tell you. So there's a second counselor, a second spiritual advisor, and he states faithful to David. And so he goes in and he asks him and he pretends that he's committed and he gives advice and his advice is intentional to keep David from following all of Ahithophel's advice. He couldn't do anything about the tent up on the top, but he did get Ahithophel's keys not to go to David and not let Ahithophel go and kill David and give David

time to be able to recover and eventually take back the kingdom. And when Ahithophel saw that his advice had not been followed, he sat at his donkey and set out for his house and his home he put his house in order and then he handed himself. Thank you. Thank you for negative. Let's go on to a more sort of positive reason I'm going to use a historical picture, a story of a group of men women who double down and chose one another. They chose community, unity, above almost everything else. Now, in full disclosure, while I have known about the Moradians and I have known some of the stuff of the Moradians, this week I have the privilege of proofing our own Kent McKay's master's thesis on the Moradians. And as I'm proofing it, you know,

I think I'm doing him a service and the whole time I'm teaching I'm going, this is really good. Oh, this is good for the, you know, I've got to say, Kent, thank you for the material. And if any of it is wrong, it's Kent's fault. Okay. So, let me start by saying, oh, and the other thing is that there's so much to say about the Moradians, but God has begun a journey with them 300 years before the time that I'm going to talk about. And there were so many ups and downs and downs and lanes and just everything that God was forming them and moving them until they got to this place between 1720 and 1730s, in those two decades, where everything seemed to gel. And God used literally a few hundred immigrant poor believers to

radically change the world. I mean, radically change the world. It vomited on what they called the Moradian Pentecost on August 13th of 1727, the end of three days of spontaneous grassroots revival, where people were testifying the Spirit came so powerfully that they didn't know whether they were in heaven or on earth. They couldn't tell. And the Spirit of God came, and from that point, within 12 days, they began an uninterrupted 24-hour prayer cycle, where several believers would sign up for each hour of the day. And for 24 hours, they would pray. Each one would pray for an hour with a couple other people. Now, if we instituted that, I would be proud of us if we got a full 24-hour because the 2 o'clock in the morning slot is really hard to tell people out.

If we could do that for a week, I feel pretty good. I mean, if we could actually, three or four of us are always present, and every hour of the day for 24 hours, and we do it for a week, and we'd be like, that'd be awesome, what would God do with that? Imagine if we did it for a year. And if you imagine what that would do, it would allow hearts into the kingdom, and the Moranians did it for a hundred years, 12 days after their own 10-month movement. They started a prayer, 24-hour prayer cycle, lasted a many years. Within 12 months, they sent out their first missionaries to Greenland and to the West Indies. They were so committed to the mission work that they were doing, that those who went to the West Indies,

they said, we want to reach your best ways. They didn't have any great training except what God had done to them in their life. They didn't go to missionary training school. They didn't do a development program. They didn't read the biographies. In fact, at that point, very few Western Christians were doing missions at all. This is free William Carey. They're just not doing it. And so they feel committed, they go, and they send them to West Indies, and they say, we're going to go and work among the poor slaves, and we're going to do no matter what. And they say, even if we have to sell ourselves into slavery, God's calling us to do this. We'll do that to communicate with the slaves and we send for Jesus. I mean, is that a pretty big

commitment? And some of you are thinking, boy, that almost sounds culture now. You do know that Eris Marcus in the 27th chapter of Acts did that. Paul was a prisoner. Paul had been in jail for the gospel for a period of time, a long period of time. He finally appealed to Caesar and said, to Caesar you go, and they put him on a boat for prisoners. And when you read Acts 27, it's really clear that they were still committing this whole idea that one person doesn't go, because Paul figured I'm going to preach the gospel to the Caesar going to the court. This isn't a bad thing, this is a good thing. You know, Romans paid for me to get to them. But they always went as a king, always as a king. And so

Luke gets onto the boat, probably signed on as a doctor, but then it tells us that Aristarchus got onto the boat as well, and Luke said the only way he could have done that was by signing up to be Paul's slave. Paul is a Roman citizen, and Roman citizens were allowed to take a personal slave,

so committed to the gospel of Jesus Christ and to this team ministry together that I'll sign on and hear the livid, hear the message on the boat. Because the Romans weren't done. 12 days of 100 year prayer, 12 months, spent the first missionaries, and ended up going to five continents in the Caribbean. By the time, Count Vincendorf was kind of the person that God used to gel them all together. By the time they all got together, in Dork's life, one out of 12 Moravians ended up as part of the missionary team. One out of 12. And I'm not talking about the Scripture mission, I mean they dedicated their life to the missionaries. One of those groups considered dedicated to going across the Atlantic and the boat was in this incredible storm. John Wesley happened to

be on the boat. John Wesley had finished books that I've read my whole life in a few years. And everybody was panicking because of the storm, except the Moravians who were in one corner, they were praying, they were worshipping God, and then they were going out comforting all of their co-workers. Wesley was so impressed that he went and sought out the Moravians and his testimony is that it led to his autoscape conversion. He became one of the fathers of the first great awakening. The Moravians impacted the first great awakening. William Currie, who was the father of the modern missionary movement, said, quote, see what the Moravians have done. Can we not follow their example? And thanks to God, it's the Lord. What led to this unbelievable movement? I'll try to do this quickly. First of all,

a disclaimer, God used a bunch of things. But the number one thing he used was, quote, an abiding, commodified, absolute commitment to one and a whole. A great personal sacrifice and ungodly humility and boldness, Zinsendorf, who was the Count, came and moved in with some raising people and convinced them to sign what he called the brotherly agreement for unity and accountability. And then for the next decade, lived that commitment out. Someone said that Zinsendorf added fellowship of the third sacrament of the Protestant Church, committed to committing out one another to actually doing the one another with each other. So much further became the foundation of the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. just a few hundred believers who literally turned the world upside down. Jesus said that I don't know you and my disciples by your loved

ones or mother. I'm not going to pull up the gallery commitment unless you get nervous in front of me. It's humbling. It's humbling. commitment level that they did. But I only can at least a miscommit to one another in tangible ways according to the words of Jesus so that they will know you are my disciples by your loved ones and others. As Ryan comes in an interesting reunion of the final act, consider this as you participate in communion.
