Spiritual Stations: Overview
2023-02-13
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yJcW4FuEasI

. .

I'm Matt Lewis. I'm one of the pastors here in the Kansas Community Church. And so we are starting a new series. And I'm excited about it. I'm also feeling a little challenged. So I've had the privilege in the last 20 years of running over 1,000 pastors through the material we're going to work with you on. And we've run it in North America. We've run it in Asia. We've run it in Africa. I mean, we've literally run it all over the world. African-American pastors, Caucasian pastors, Hispanic pastors, urban, rural, very liturgical, very independent, very charismatic. I mean, all across the board. And I've just watched thousands of pastors renewed and rejuvenated as they engage, as they actually practice the kinds of things we're going to talk about. That's the exciting part for me. The challenging part for me is that everything I say will mean nothing to you if you don't actually engage.

It would be kind of like if I give lectures on how to speed, I can do that 12 times, but if you can get on speed, you don't get it. And I know that Ryan asked you to do homework. And just my individual kind of photo this morning as people were walking in, like, "Oh, yeah, we were supposed to bring that, weren't we?" I hope you did pick up the inventory. You can take it after service, but after service, you're going to hear what else you say. And that's going to skew what you write and your results aren't going to be really good. We're not going to collect your homework, fear not, but it will help you identify what spiritual spike you are. We're relying on some material that's put together by an author, Orban Holmes, Episcopal priest, theologian, professor,

whose study was in church history, and he wrote on the history of Christian spirituality. And as he looked over the last 2,000 years of Christian history across continents, across different cultures, he was able to identify a variety of spiritual spikes that emerged that God has used to further his kingdom. And so we want to introduce you to those and actually invite you to maybe even participate in some. And it's my job today to kind of unpack that. We're using a metaphor of musical stations. While we have our boombox back here, we're going to change stations each week. This week, I'm kind of talking about the whole boombox. And I might liken this whole series to almost like a music appreciation period. Although in this context, it's kind of a spiritual type, spiritual space in appreciation.

Last week, Pastor Ryan made the comment that, as a pastor, if we walk away from this with an appreciation, that, for our brothers and sisters who approach God differently can see the Bible differently. And I'm not saying outside biblical norms. Everything we talk about is going to be deeply rooted in the Bible. Deeply rooted in the Scriptures. The problem is that many of us tend to focus in on the Scriptures. And a few ways of defining certain sections will be deeply biblical, rooted in the Scriptures, rooted in the things of God. Everything we talk about will have been crafted for 2,000 years in the church. The great success in the kingdom of God. So, if you can walk away with appreciation, maybe you'll be a little unsjudgmental. Because all of us, here's what happens, folks.

We encounter God in a profound way. And so, we conclude that this is the way you encounter God in profound ways. And so, therefore, I want you to encounter God the way I encounter God so you can experience the profoundness of God. Oh, that's great. Until we go to, oh, and this is the way to encounter God. So, I agree with Ryan. If we can walk away with appreciation of our brothers and sisters not being judgmental, that would be great. I have a second goal, and I'll talk about that in a little bit. I want to tell you a story. I don't know, 15 years ago, I was at the Leadership Summit. I was a younger kind of student, maybe 20 years ago. And my bishop at the time, he had invited all of us to go.

He paid for us to go. We sat with him. He was in his 70s. And this was at the time when Hillsong was just becoming a thing in Christianity. They were really stepping into the musical scene of Christianity. And darling, I think that's how you pronounce it, although it's not phonetically correct if you've ever seen her name. She got up and they interviewed her, and she was really not well known in Christian circles. You know, she is now. Shout to the Lord was one of her big songs at the time. And when they interviewed her for a few minutes, she was so humble. And you could tell that she really did not like talking about her stuff. And then they asked her to do one worship song to kind of introduce the idea because we were going to do a worship night that evening.

And she wanted people to come. We wanted people to come. And so, during this one song, God felt profoundly impacted me. Literally. I was in the midst of church planting. And my whole conception of what God was calling me to do with the church was rearranged. My vision mission in a few minutes, God transformed me. He didn't radically change it, but he gave a new input to it. And I leaned over to my bishop who was in his seventies at the end. And I said, "Oh, wasn't that just amazingly capable?" And he was only a wise seventy-plus-year-old bishop from there. And he looked at me and said, "Well, honestly, I didn't get any from it." And then he said, "But I know this generation does." I said, "We need to do it." That's what we're talking about.

Ways that people can experience God. Let me give another example if I can. So, if you were introducing someone to Jesus who was fairly new in the faith, might you encourage them to do this? Well, on a daily basis, try to read your Bible. Is that a good idea? I mean, is that a good thing? I guess that in our context, that encouraging someone new in the faith, even someone long standing in the faith, you are drifting. Okay, now, how about you read your Bible? I recommend it all the time. Read with what I'm going to say now. Don't really say anything other than this is a great recommendation. But do you realize how culturally constrained that really is? I mean, it really is. First of all, let's take this word. Read your Bible. Read.

Do you realize that's the privilege of the privilege? For two-thirds of our history as a Christian, the vast majority of Christians, of history, the vast majority of Christians couldn't read. In fact, even in 1800, in England, 40% of men, adult males, were illiterate, and 60% of women were illiterate. 2023, today, in North America, well, I see in the U.S., 21% of adults in the U.S. are illiterate. So, if I go to someone, 21% of the people who might, are probably not in this church. Probably not. But if I say to them, oh, okay, you've met the Lord, praise God, what I need you to do is read your Bible. They're going to go, oh, okay. And they have no clue how to read them. And how about the word "Jewish"? Read your Bible. Christians today in America, we have an average of 4.6 Bibles at home.

But you do realize, again, for the majority of the history of the church, prior to the Gutenberg Press in 1430-something, thank you, I always knew there was, like, one literalist that could, you know, this historian could quote it. I love it. That's why I don't give the actual number unless I'm positive of it. Because otherwise, I'd say 1433 and they'd say 1435. But people didn't have the Bible. Maybe your monastery did. Maybe your church did. Maybe the rich ruler did. Why? Because to have a Bible, someone had to take the entire 66 books of the Bible and had to get enough parchment from medieval stables and copy word for word. I mean, how many of you actually read your Bible in a year? We're talking about copying the whole thing. So, when we say your Bible, that's a gift of the privilege.

And I think I'm going to read the Bible. Read your Bible. You do realize, so this country has been around, what, a little under 250 years? For 400 years of the church, we were not solidified on which books were in the Bible. There was general recognition. There was, I mean, as early as the New Testament writing, Paul's letters were already recognized as Scripture, which is amazing. These letters were written all over the world. People were, oh, they're so powerful. They just recognized that something special, they were being brought together. But, again, reading your Bible is important, but it's culturally constrained. Now, what is absolutely critical is that you engage with the Word of God. Because the Word of God will not return void. And every culture, every age, every era engaged with the Word of God.

They just didn't all do it by reading it. But there are lots of ways that God has profoundly changed people with His Word, has met with His people through His Word, other than sitting alone and reading it. And so we want to explore that. Because we're just 40. Just 40. Just 40. Just 40. I want to be generous with you in this. Just 40. Just 40. So, if we can appreciate that's awesome. But I have a second goal. As much as I want you to walk away appreciating the various ways, one of the things that I found in my working with liberals thousands of premises in all cultures, all across the world, all contexts, is that, well, the research says this: By the time you're about 15 years old in the Lord, the means of grace, the discipline, the activities you do for God to transform you are likely to become mundane.

It's like walking, the first time you walk to the house of God, and you peer in the window and you go, "How long?" What I've watched with pastors, and I know that there are a lot of spiritually mature people here who've been walking at this for 15 or more years, if I teach you by the hand and I lead you around to the side of the house, and you look into a window you've never looked in before, you're going to go, "How long?" And the challenge is that eight of your brethren are already looking in that window and you have no clue. And maybe you can take their hand and walk them back to your window and go, "How long?" Because God's done so much for you. Now, if you are new to the faith, if you are less than 15 years old in the Lord, even before you took, its goal is to help you identify what your spiritual preference is.

What's facing you like to listen to? What's facing you too into God's truth? And just like music, you know, if you like rock music, there's a lot of different kinds of rock music. If you like classical, there's lots of different kinds of classical, but it's enjoyment. If you like country western, well, there's really only one song about a hundred different ways, but... ...for one. Can I hear an amen? Can I hear it? Get off the stage, buddy. So, here's another illustration. When I was younger, I used P90X. Anyone familiar with P90X? Yeah, but I was really into it. And then I got a little older, and I started doing a P45 class. And now I'm hopeful for P22 dads, you know? The whole concept behind it was muscle confusion. The premise for the program is your body adapts to whatever you do, and in adapting to whatever it does, it grows stronger in that, but other areas bring the exercise.

So, as an example, in my younger years, I was a rock climber, mountain climber. I had the privilege of climbing Denali, the largest mountain in the lower 48. I'm sorry, in North America, because it's in the upper 50. And I changed like you wouldn't believe it. I mean, to climb Denali, it's about two to three weeks, you've got to throw a 60-pound pack and pull a 60-pound thread. At times, going up 60-degree ice, it costs the oxygen in temperatures, it gets about 30 below. It takes a lot of the strength. And I used to walk, you know, a couple hundred stairs a day, with a daily time pass, getting weight from my ankles to try to get a mistake. And someone told me I had a lift, and so I started lifting. And when I went to the gym, they had these really cool machines.

You ever see those machines? They really worked because they isolate a muscle. And you put that out, and it forces that muscle, the machines, and get really big. And then they went out on a practice climb of doing Rainier in the winter, and they had a couple days to climatize, and so they were walking us through this ice climbing. And so you had to take ice axes, and put them over your head, and crampons would put you in, and you'd climb up on a heavy rope. And I'm thinking, "I'll do this." And by the time I get through a pump, they'll let me down. My arms were just clean. They were just so deep and hurt. So when I went home, I asked my doctor about it. I said, "It's a person." He said, "What have you been doing?"

I told him, "I said, "You need to go to the PT diet." And every PT person in the room already knows, well, I'm often, that I may be certain muscles so strong without strengthening the stabilizing muscles that my strong muscles actually rip my stabilizing muscles. Do you ever meet someone who knows their Bible so well that they beat people over the head with it? They're, they've got some strong muscles, but they're stabilizing muscles when people work on them. You hear me? Okay. Now, in this, I'll have a couple more other spaces, but I'll skip them.

In this series, I'm going to, or we, as we're going to team teach it, we're going to introduce you to some things that you're familiar with and you really like. And we're going to introduce you to some things that you're familiar with and you really don't like. And we're going to introduce you to some things that you're unfamiliar with and you're going to like. And then we're going to introduce you to some things that you're unfamiliar with and you're not going to like. I promise you, we will be an equal opportunity ascender. Okay. My last comment before I get into the actual, this is an introduction. I know it's a long one, but I'm going to run, because from here on I'm going to be teaching rather than preaching. We're going to approach this series and these various styles, spaces, not so much as a virtue, but as a discipline.

Let me see if I can make the difference. So, a couple weeks ago, I talked about giving. And giving is a virtue. God's a generous God. He wants us to be generous. Giving gets things accomplished in the kingdom. And being generous is a virtue. It's a good virtue. But in my message, if you remember, I try to encourage you to think about your generosity, not so much as a virtue, but rather as a discipline. In other words, it's not about what can I accomplish through my giving out there, but rather in my aspect of giving, how does that position in so God can do this transformative work in me? That if the money God, if the covetousness is taking over, that one of the ways I crucify the money God is by being hilariously generous.

Forever. We're going to let one of the ways Cory's going to introduce us to the way of discernment. That there are ways in spiritual Christ that stationed in servitude. And while all of us discern, and it's really good to discern, we're not going to try to guilt you into serving. We're going to invite you into thin and active service as a way to position yourself before God for God to do a transformative work in you. And so my hope, I hope that you appreciate all these other ways in your less, we are less judgmental, that we are more appreciative. But I'm convinced that if you will step into the ways that are unfamiliar to you, you look in those windows, you haven't looked in, you take time, and not to understand it, but actually do it.

This is one of the most powerful ways to accelerate your own spiritual development. I have watched pastor after pastor after pastor, all across the globe, who took monumental steps in their own personal faith, who have been studying it for years. Those are the motions. It's pain. And because they took a chance to think, well, maybe God's bigger than my understanding of him. And maybe things that have gone before me have something to teach them. Trust me, I need it. So I took a step into it. It won't change.

It's almost like we're going to give you, generally, six different drinks that are intended to significantly increase your spiritual growth. And I promise you, none of them will hurt you. And one or two of them will accelerate your spiritual growth. The problem is, I don't know which one will accelerate for who. And so, I'm going to invite you, I'm going to encourage you, between each message during the week, we're going to try to give you waves. Don't change it. Don't change it. Don't change it. It is that. Now, make sure I'm biblical, by all means. Make sure it's beautifully rooted in the history of the church and the way God has done them. But, if you're excited, folks. Because he wants to take you on a journey to the experience of the church and the reverberating literal story.

Or to find change. God wants you to be more like Jesus. And he wants to help you position yourself for what you can accomplish from. And my nation says, you don't agree with me, but am I making sense? Okay. I hope it's good. So, if you get the human car, you turn away with something like this. You know, little vases, different quadrants. And we're going to unpack those quadrants so you'll understand them. Up in the, well, let me go over here. The upper right is one. This person has one mark, which means that's kind of their low side. They don't really, they don't engage in them. Down on the bottom right is four. That's, that's, they do that quite a bit. But it can't be formed into that. I mean, they're like seven. So, four, that's, that's, that's their, that's the thing thing they love.

And they have those two thing on their, you know, for me, I have like four different talk radio things on my, on my dog. Because I just love talk radio. And then when my wife gets in the car, she's like, okay, that's nice. You've had enough of that. We do some music. Because I'm, I'm actually a tool. That's my preference. I'm part of my dog. Okay. So, we're going to unpack what that means. And I hope you took it already. Because otherwise what you're going to do is you're going to answer the question. You're going to, you're going to hear what I'm saying. You're going to say, oh, I really want to be best. And then you're going to answer the question so that you're best. And you can do that, but it's not going to be nearly as beneficial.

So, hopefully you've taken it if you haven't. There are some at the back if you have it with you. Try, just try to be honest with yourself. Tell your state, yeah, okay. The other thing is these inventories, what they do, they say, they never, inventories never give you your fingerprint. They give you different things. Okay. So, it's not defining you. It's just trying to get you in the sphere that you might want to think about. Okay. So, when you look at this, there's a vertical aspect of it down, and there's a horizontal, and the vertical is how we approach and know God. Some of us approach and know God through thinking. We do Bible study. We listen to sermons that unpack theological truths. We love orderly worship. Our concern is orthodoxy, right thinking. And we just love that stuff up there, thinking.

Down in the bottom, these are folks who approach God more freely in order. Okay? These are the folks who say, yeah, that's great, you have all that thought. I suggest engage drugs. I mean, you can read a whole biography about me, and you will know less about me than if you take three days on a retreat and you sit around the fire. Because you're keeping that with me, and if you're going to learn things that they need, they don't like people down here. But some people approach God and say, no, I mean, I want to know. I'm like, what did the old person say, that Adam knew Eve, and that's King King. I'm not too far with that. Perfect. She serves as a nephew, don't want to laugh. I get it. Okay, that's good. The next one is a horizontal axis, and this is how we can touch a lot of things and experience God.

This comes, I said before, from the work of urban homes. You can Google urban homes if you want to read. History of Christian Spirituality, plastic. And he uses big, fancy words that even theologians don't know. He's not very dramatic, apathetic, not very helpful. And so, to ring where, to first know the inventory that you took, a United Methodist posture. When she did it, she said, you know, those words aren't helpful, so she came up as a concrete and abstract, and quite frankly, I don't know if that's overly helpful for a reader. Let me use more theological tones. The right side, or, yeah, for you, the right side, the concrete. The identity of God is imminent. He's here. He's here. He's here. God is omnipresent. He lives in you. He's in the room. He's in the world.

There's nowhere you go where he's not. In fact, the psalmist says, "Where can I go from you? If I go down to zero, if I go down to hell, there you are." So, there's nowhere I can go. God is omnipresent. And God is revealed. God is knowable. I can have a social relationship because he's so knowable. We're praying in the image of God, and let an image connect with who he is, and we can know God. The other side of this is the transcendence. God is not his creation. That's the heresy of some who are overly imminent. God is other than his creation. God is fly and lifted up. The Old Testament tells us, God said, speaks with us in the Old Testament and said, "My ways, not your ways. My thoughts, not your thoughts."

Who can know the mind of God? The Lord's Prayer covers both of these, by the way. Our Father, isn't it, to our end? Yeah. That he is holy other. He is inside of his creation. That he existed before the creation ever existed. He's transcended. He's missed you. He's above and beyond you. Anyone who thinks they've got us figured out, has no clue. He's so above and beyond you. Okay. So that's time to do. And then we're going to look at these quadrants. The home. The home loves theological sermons. They're theologically accurate. You know, pick a passage. Unpack the passage. Tell us, "Well, this is not a bird. It's a carnivore. And why that matters." That kind of stuff. And they need a big juice about that. You know, someone who takes an Old Testament reality

and helps us understand a New Testament concept. I did a message, I don't know, about nine months ago. And I connected an Old Testament prophet to the weird stuff that Jesus did when I cursed the food free. That's like a really weird one, you know. He cursed this. Why are you doing that? And I connected the two. And it's the only time a specific individual said, "Man, that was such a good message." Like, they're, they love that kind of stuff. You know, by the way, we're going to do communion, because communion fits in every single one of these qualities. But we, each quality looks at a different one. And so, for the head, they want to make sure you do it properly. Do it their right way. Okay? Since this is Super Bowl Sunday, let me see if I can translate it into something we might understand.

The head football person is the person who studies the playbook. They know their position. When they're doing that in sweet, they know the blocking assignment. They know to run around and do something over here that is not where they are. And that's important. It's critical. Okay. That's it. And by the way, someone, I don't know what I'm saying. I've got to unpack the whole message and give us ways to engage. If that's a preferred way, maybe there's one way to position yourself before God. I don't know what I'm saying. I don't know what I'm saying. I don't know what you're saying. I don't know what you're saying. I don't know what you're saying. You know what you're saying. I don't know what you're saying. I don't know what you're saying. I don't know what you're saying.

By the way, here's one reason. And I'll get to put this other stuff down. How many think we should be laborless for God? Only four people. Ryan, we're in trouble. You know what the blessing here is? In May, I get to leave. You're in trouble. Okay, so God wants labor. How many think God wants love? Okay, let's see more. So here's my case, because I'm a heart guy. God really loves lovers because lovers labor better than labor is labor. The heart person says, you know the passage, "If you love me, you'll keep my commandments." Yeah, so there's quadrant four. We'll get to it. They say, yes, you can't love God. He says, obey him. Do it. I mean, obey him. Do it. Do it. And a lot of people say, no. You love the reason you live a big family.

And when you fall in love with someone, and you love with someone, and you love with someone, when you're connected to them, and you can't. You just want to do it. You want to do it. Okay. Okay. So, football, know them, and then some parts. Let me get that. Next one, this is the one that my guest is a lot of you unfamiliar with. We're advancing the privilege of introducing us to it next week. By the way, before I go there, let me say this, that communion actually sits in the mystical category better than any of them. It sits in all of them. But communion is a symbolic element that engages matter, and touch, and taste, engages your whole body. Marital medicine is from what in St. Francis. That's a biblical metaphor. Like, it's not just a biblical metaphor.

It's a biblical practice. So, I noticed when it said, you know, lift up hands, there's four of us did it. We're saying, I lift up hands, and four of us did it. The first people love them, because it was full body engaged. The mystical would say, where's the infant? Let's obey God, and let's do it. And then you're already being worried about it. So, you know, some people say, you're so heavenly minded, you know earthly good. The mystic is the one who says, no, no, no, no, no. You're so earthly minded, you know heavenly good. By the way, those who want to judge the mystic, please do realize that in the preservation of our Scriptures, God used the monastic movement to do it. It was mystical monks who sat around and studied a lot, who copied the Scriptures over and over

and over and over again, that allowed us to preserve the Scriptures. Now, that's not God where he found another way to do it. But, he chose the mystical tradition. Uh, you're not alone. Most, we used to have people that were all the problems of mystics. So, you're heroic folks. You're heroic folks. You're heroic Augustine. You know where he came from, right? You know he was a monk. You know, in fact, he didn't want to move into any kind of church leadership. No, no, no, no. Let me just stay in trust. Because his years of mystical experience empowered him to be able to step into the world in a profound way. I'll give you another one. The restoration. You guys like the restoration? Martin Luther. Come on. But Martin Luther, the first time he did communion, he was so afraid of the presence of God in the

hope that he dropped it. So, our grace-haired people come out of a deep sense of this tradition. Uh, this one's a little harder to do with football analogies. But it might be, this is the watching of the tape sessions. So, you watch those tape sessions and there's a point that you analyze it. But at some point, you just watch and watch and watch and watch and watch and watch. And you begin to pick up things you can't even identify. And you're out on the sea of it in the moment and someone makes a click. And you go, oh, there's only a minute. And you didn't, you didn't figure that cognitively. You just absorbed it. Because you spent so much time with this, with this piece. I can't say a whole lot more about it. I, by the way, I know I'm, I'm constantly attracted to it.

It's the place where I've met God most occasionally in the last 10 years. It's still a little weird. But God is good. Okay. And all the time. Okay. Next one's the servant. The servant, they're the ones that say, okay, when you're done preaching, done playing, done fellow-sipping, done doing all this stuff, can we just do something for God? Those of you that, by the way, loved our service that we did when we served lots of homeless. We came in here and we were standing on all the beds where people were sleeping. And we, we sat in for a little bit. And we talked for a little bit. And the whole purpose of that was to get us to go and do things for the homeless. If you love the best, just maybe you love this peace.

That might be one of the ways. These folks often, they're the ones that get really strange. There was people that, they were frankly just, just sit out and do something for God. I have a really good friend who's in this category. He didn't know what it was called. He did a Bible study. And he was in his 20s. By the way, let me just say that. He was in his 20s. And he's in the Bible study. He's leading. And he said, okay, instead of a normal study, let's do this. I want everyone to share, what is your vision for what God wants to do in these three years for the next five years? And so, each person is telling me, you know, how they were going to engage and continue to go out and make a difference.

And this one guy in his study, nice guy, said, well, my vision for the next five years is to, is to double my business so my holidays is twice as much. And Mark looked at him and said, that's super. Why don't you just give 20% and give, and do something for God? Then you go over and read it. Then you go over and read it. Then you go over and read it.

You go over and read it. Then you go over and read it. Then you go over and read it. Then you go over and read it.
