Like No Other: Feeding Five Thousand & Walking on Water!
2023-09-25
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dFI_4wujV0Y

Thank you. Thank you. One of the narrative themes in the Gospel of John, meaning he has a bunch of different structures, all with the aim of helping us to believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that through believing that we might have this abundant life now and eternal life in the future. I got, I started to get sick last Friday, and seasons were changing, I thought it would be sinus infection, but Rory got sick, so I called the doctor, and the doctor was like, hey, people say that sinus infection is when they don't want me to have a cold, it keeps it up to the nose. I was like, no, no, no, it's sinus infection. He was like, well, well, well, let's set this keep it up to the nose. So, prior to the night, I found out that I was not going to be teaching Sunday morning, so super thankful to Nick for stepping in last minute.

That's why we kind of pulled it away from our series, and it's possible. I don't know exactly my theology around this. It's possible that God made me sick. I had a bit of a rant scheduled for last week that I was not really sure if I should go on or not, you know, when times I step on throw boxes, and you're like, is that from the Lord, or is that, like, a pendulum thing that he's dealing with? So, I really wasn't sure if it was from the Lord for me, and I got sick, and so that messes me on itself for later. Maybe we'll come back to it, maybe we'll walk. But, we're moving on. It seems like I like the other series, seven times, seven items. It really is a great series for those of you that might be spiritually curious, searching the Scriptures, wondering if Jesus might be who he says he is.

He might actually have the words that lead to eternal life, and for those of us that have been following him for a long time, my hope and my prayer is that this will increase our belief, our trust, our obedience, and thinking of his words, and what he came to do and will be. So, let me pray, and then we will help him to our test. Father, thank you so much for this opportunity to study the Scriptures together, worship together, fellowship together, and our children are in front of us, learning about Moses. Just like that, God, that you would impound himself and allow them to hear truth and begin to understand your life for them on a deeper level. That we would do the same ministry in the Holy Spirit that you filled a room up.

And then you would use whatever it is that I say up here to speak your words to these people, to myself. That we would listen to them today. So, if you don't mind, do me a favor, stand up. We're going to do something that we don't do all the time here. But I'd like to stand in reverence and respect for God's word. And for those of you that grow up in my church, literally, I'm going to teach the reading. If you didn't grow up in that, I'm going to teach the reading. And when we finish the reading, I'm going to say, this is the word of the Lord. And you guys are going to say, thanks do to God. And then you can say, God, in chapter 6, starting with verse 1, after this, Jesus went away to the other side of the seat of Galilee, which is the seat of Galilee.

A large crowd was following him because they saw the signs that he was doing on the stick. Jesus went up on the mountain, and then he sat down with his disciples. Now, the Passover feast of the Jews was at hand. Looking up his eyes, then, and seeing a large crowd was coming forth, and Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? Philip said, Or Jesus said this question, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, Two hundred denarii worth of God would not be enough for each of them to give just a little. One of the disciples, Andrew Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley rows and two fish. But what are they made for so many?

Jesus said, Have the people to them. Now, there was so much grass in this place, so the men said that he had about five thousand in number. Jesus then took the rows, and when he had given things, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted, and when they had eaten their fill, he told the disciples, Gathered up the rest of their fragments that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up, don't dissolve those cases, fragments, and five barley rows left by those who had eaten. And when the people saw that someone here done, they said, This indeed is the prophet who is coming into the world. Lord, Lord, let's have a seat. So, to review, we've so far we've just gone over a couple of signs, miracles.

John likes to use the term sign over miracles. I mean, he's very intentional about which signs that he places in his narrative. And this sign in particular is interesting because it's one of, it's the only miracle outside the resurrection. That's in all four Gospels. Matthew, Mark, and John, which is interesting. And in general, like always, his version is a bit different than all of the others. Because, again, his intended purpose is to convince us that Jesus is the sign. So, we get to this. So far, where we've gained Jesus from his water into wine, he heals the name, and now he's going to multiply lobster rolls by the beast. So, if you're new to the Bible, or if you're reading it with a Western mindset, you might be thinking, Why in the world did anybody want to kill this guy?

Right? Like, to this point, water to wine in the wedding, heal the guy who's been lame for 40 years, And now he's going to feed a starving crowd over 5,000 people with food by the beast. Well, so that seems pretty great, right? Well, I think part of the problem is we read these stories through our own readers, and we kind of miss some of the obatious things that Jesus did. If we were just to, like, think about the story that I just read. There's nothing really offensive to anyone in that story, right? There's a hundred people, Jesus feeds them. I've heard this talk of priests sometimes, like, you've got to be a little boy, you've got to be someone with whatever you have left in your hand, and use a little ball supply, right? It's not a bad sermon to preach, but it really, it reads through the Scripture in the audience,

it takes out exactly what Jesus was doing here in this story. It's important to not just look, or not just think about what Jesus says, but also to think about what he does. There's a, I think it was named Martin Solomon, and he says this. He says, everything about a rabbi's life is instructed. Everything about a rabbi's life is instructed. So it's not just what Jesus says, but he's trying to teach us. It's also what he does. And so what I want to do is I want to go back through this story again, but try and put ourselves in the context. But as much as we can, and to think about it, if you were a Jewish person, if you had spent your entire life studying the Torah, the law of Moses, and if you had spent all of your life in Jewish religious system,

and then a carpenter from Bethlehem comes and says, I am equal to God. I am God. Like, I'm really hard on the Pharisees, but like, think about that for a second. Think about the way of what Jesus is saying in everything that he's doing. So it's not just that he's doing his full partnerships. He's not just sending water to water. He's not just stealing the money. He's not just feeding 5,000. He's making an extremely bold claim that he is the Son of God. And that's what's so offensive about Jesus. But we kind of, like, round some of that. Even in our culture today, like, everybody wants Jesus to be on their team. But they, like, just talk about his cool spiritual things. They make him, like, the spiritual, like, guru that gives us cool advice for life.

But, like, that doesn't work. If he actually said, I'm God. Right? It's what he's doing through his things. He's either a liar. He's either a lunatic. Or he's the Lord. Like, he can't say, I'm God. And also just be a cool teacher. Because, like, that's real. Okay? So there's some really essential things going on here as he begins to ramp up his ministry. I mean, we see it actually towards the end of his miracle where he heals the name that Matt covered up this road. Because he heals the name on the Sabbath. And this, a thing that he said, is he's not supposed to do anything on the Sabbath. At least according to him, you're not supposed to heal on the Sabbath. And John chapter 5, verse 18, this is where the context really itself.

It says, this was why the Jews were all seeking the Lord to kill him. Because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was calling God, his own Father, making himself equal to God. So this is where, like, we start to see, it's not just he's doing great things. It's not just he's helping people. It's not just he's teaching good spiritual lessons. He's claiming to be equal with God. And this is what John says his purpose of the whole letter of John is. He wants us to believe that Jesus is God. He wants us to believe that if we trust in Jesus, we can have a restored relationship with God. So, with that context in mind, he then does something weird here at the end of chapter 5, where he brings up Moses. Look at it in chapter 5, verse 45.

He says, Do you not think that I will accuse you to the Father? There is one who accuses you, Moses, on whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? Just a bold statement here. Moses is the hero of the Jewish faith. Like, Abraham cool, David cool, Elijah cool. Like, Moses is the God. He wrote the first five books of the Bible. He's the one that kind of established this covenant between the nation of Israel and God. Moses is the hero of the faith. And Jesus comes to him and says, You don't understand Moses at all. Can we now start to feel some of the tension? Feel like it might be a little bit of familiar in this situation.

Like, what do you mean we don't understand Moses? We have Moses, remember us. We know Moses. You don't know Moses. Jesus is saying, If you knew Moses, you would know me, because Moses wrote about me.

With that in mind, let's pick up the story. Let's read that. Well, for someone who wrote Deuteronomy 18, verses 18 and 19, this is probably the passage that Jesus was referring to. He said, If you knew Moses, you would know me, because Jesus, or Yahweh, says this to Moses in Deuteronomy 18. He says, I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among your brothers. I will put my words in his mouth, and he will tell them everything I command him. I will hold accountable whoever does not listen to my words that he speaks among your brothers. So God promises a prophet like Moses who's going to promise the anointed Messiah that has an alternate redemption plan, and when he told him, the Jews were to kill him. It's going to be crazy.

But, let's read back to the story with this context in mind, and see why maybe some of these people might have gotten a little bit of something. So, how many of you, like all the Testament scholars have we got? You guys grew up in Sunday school and know the story of Moses to, uh, I love Canvas first, like none of you. That's awesome. Yeah. So, those of you that have it, those of you that know it, do your best to help me out. So, think about the story of Moses. Call for me, worry all of the thoughts and ideas you have about Moses in your mind. You got it? Okay. Cool. Okay. So, after this, right after Jesus says, Moses is going to accuse you. You guys don't get Moses. If you got Moses, you get me.

After this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, and a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs he was doing on the ship. Remind me anything? Moses ran across the body of the water, large crowds followed him because they saw signs he did. Well, my other one. Right? When we read this passage with Western eyes, we miss it. But this, this text was meant to be read from beginning to end in the, in the presence of Jewish readers. And so, they're, they're not lost on this. They hear he's saying, you don't know Moses if you know Moses. And then he's about to say, guess what? Like, I'm, I'm better than Moses. He's really ringing out the story of Moses giving manna from heaven, from God, to his people, on the Sea of Galilee.

Crazy. Just keep listening. Listen with you, Jesus is, cross the, cross the body of water, large crowds, because of signs. Jesus went up on the mountain. Moses? Up on the mountain? All right. Jesus went up on the mountain. He sat down with his disciples. This, this was weird to me when I first read that. I said, why do you bring up Passover? Because we know from the, these, the other Gospels, that when Passover came, where did Jesus go? Grusel. He went up on the other side of the lake from Grusel, and it's close to Passover. So, why does John bring up Passover, other than to make the readers think about Moses? All right. Jesus walked down, there he sat down with his disciples. Passover feels way to him. And why, why is Passover on Moses connected?

He sat down with, like, that was the last fight, right? Moses passed over. Are we dead? Okay. Lifting up his eyes, seeing the large crowd was coming towards him. Large crowd, at the base of money. They're hungry. Okay. Lifting up his eyes, seeing the large crowd was coming towards him. Jesus said to say, like, where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? This is where it gets really easy, if it wasn't there. I know that he's talking about such thing. This isn't funny enough. Come on. He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. Look at that. Moses, like Savior, crossing the lake, people following because of the signs that he's doing. Holy crowd of people at the base of a man. And now he's setting up a spiritual test.

Now, this might be a little bit more difficult for some of us to take me a while to find it. Ephesians chapter 16, verse 4. When the Lord said to Moses, I am going to bring bread from heaven for you. The people are to go out each day and gather enough for that day. This way I will what? Ask them to see whether or not they will follow my instructions. Do you guys get in the Moses vibes in this passage? It's pretty cool, right? It's really cool. Like, when I saw that test passage, I was like, oh, wow. Jesus is really nasty. This entire story with this from people. And ultimately, what he's going to do, we're going to get down in the old soil. He's making it clear that I am greater than Moses.

Your spiritual hero, the one who wrote the Scriptures for you, I have come to replace him. I am going to be the ultimate person who communicates on behalf of God to you and on behalf of you too. God, I will be the ultimate intercessor between you and God. It used to be Moses. I am replacing you. So, setting up the third test in the wilderness by the base of the mountain, especially not in the wilderness. We'll get there in the little bit. So, really cool stuff going on, except for, if I can be honest with you. Can I be honest with you? I've really read the sentences a bunch of times this week. Did not like the idea of Jesus testing stuff. Does that rub anybody else the wrong way? Like, Jesus knows what he's going to do, but he's like, testing, show up.

He's like, messing with them all of us. Am I the only one who's not bothers? That's okay. Okay, I'm the only one who's not bothers. I'm like, why? Why does he have to do that? But as I like dug into it a little bit, I think it's possible that I'm really struggling with that because of my own misunderstanding of the nature of the test.

When I think about tests, I think about tests fail, right? I think Jesus is setting up this whole test so that Philip can fail. And I don't like that. I don't like the idea of Jesus setting up tests for people to fail. But the more that I thought about tests, the more I thought about the spots in which God kind of tests Israel in the Old Testament, like, this isn't a one-time thing. God has these tests that I eat, the Garden of Eden. It's a test, right? Are you going to trust me or not? Are you going to listen to my words? Are you going to make your own decision? And so I came across this quote that really helps me out from Tim Matthews. He says this, The nature of a test is dependent on the purpose of the one being the testing.

The enemy tests to trick and destroy, but God tests to reveal and invite. The purposes of God's tests are to reveal to you what you actually believe to be true about him and to invite you into deeper connection with him, to a deeper relationship with him. So when God sets up a test to Philip, it's not a test fail. It's saying, Philip, what do you believe about me in this situation? You've been following me for long enough. You've seen me do a ton of miracles. Now there's a crowd here gathering, and they're all wondering, how are we going to see you? He's just giving Philip an opportunity to out loud say what he believes about God. It's an opportunity to go into deeper relationships. Tim Matthews continues with his quote. He says, When God tests people in the Bible, it's an opportunity for deeper relationships.

So Jesus is inviting Peter to a deeper understanding of who he is and to a deeper relationship with himself. I'm going to make the argument actually that this test goes for Philip, for Andrew, and for the entire crowd. But he says he suggests Philip. Philip is, where are we at my notes? Philip's clean with my face. And it's interesting to me that's Philip. The town that they're in is actually probably Philip's hometown. So I think he's like, hey, you know where the stores are. You know where we get food. And you're like, how are we going to get enough food to feed them? And he says, $200, $8, $8 would not be enough to buy just a little bit of bread for this guy. So Philip's like, I've got no clue. It's just like, here we, you can send them away and let them figure it out themselves.

You must have immediately like, are you serious? You're a real animal, right? Like, it's not like this judgmental thing. It's an invitation to understand more for me. It's more of what he's like. Andrew times in, and he kind of gets it. One of the disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother said to him, there's a boy here who has five barley loaves and two cents. But what are they for so many? So, there's an interesting story in the Old Testament where the prophet Elisha feeds 100 men with 20, guess what? Barley loaves. Right? So Andrew knows the Old Testament. People, I tell you, like, we've been making comments about you being a prophet, you know, like, Elisha or Alonja. I know that Elisha won, she's out of 100 people with 20 loaves, but you've got, like, 15,000 people and you've got five loaves.

So, like, if we had a few more loaves and a few less people, you could do it. Like, so Andrew, like, trying to get to it. You're kind of like, Jesus, you're pretty awesome. You're right to profit. Maybe you could feed this many people if we had more. So, he's getting close to it. He's getting a little bit warmer. But he's not there yet. Jesus says, have the people this day. Now, there was much grass in this place. So, I think now we're going to start to see, and I'm not going to read things in here at the very end. It's not the very end of my message. It's the very end of the discussion. Don't get excited. We're not there yet. In every way in this story, Jesus is going to do better than life.

So, in Exodus there in the wilderness, here they're sitting in much grass. That's better than the wilderness, right? Okay. Okay. I'm glad we're going to listen. So, when they sit down in much grass, the man said down about five thousand, Jesus took the rose, and when he had given things, what did he do? Well, you know, he distributed them, right?

Food comes from God in the Jewish culture. It's just a bold thing. Like, in the story of Exodus, Moses said he gives the food to the people, the food falls down from heaven. It is directly God giving the food to the people. It's not Moses giving the food to the people. So, Jesus blesses the bread, and he distributes the bread, and he is making an extremely bold thing. Yet again, just like in the story of a hearing-going person on Sabbath, claiming he's equal with God, yet again, he distributes the bread, making himself equal with God. Now, this is incredibly offensive, if you don't believe that he's the Messiah. So, he distributes them, so also the faith, as much as they wanted, when they were eating their fruit, he told the disciples, gather up the fragments so that nothing may be left.

They gathered them up and sowed twelve baskets with the fragments of five barley oils left by those who had eaten. All right, back to Moses, what happens when you gather up the menace and have less paper in the wilderness? It's spoils, right? You have, again, Jesus is saying, my works are better than Moses. This bread and also menace, you know what that means? What is it? It was gross, right? So, barley bread, better than menace, probably. I don't know. I didn't have menace, but if you're going to call something, what is it? My mom's a nursery, so real quick, don't tell her I said this. Not the best cook in the world, right? Oh, is there a live stream in there? Oh, man. Hey, look, football foods, tacos, burgers, she's got it. But everything else, like, there's been times when she's had something before me and I was like, what?

All right, don't tell her I said that. So, Jesus himself is to be safe. There's leftovers, 12 basketballs, probably representing the nation of Israel. There is more than enough of my grace and favor to go around for all of God's people. Thank you. I've always wanted to be heckled in search, so there we go. I didn't think it was going to be my mom, but, hey, here we are.

A pastor of Matt's mom also watches online, so I'm going to have to get her a direct blog next week, so she can handle Matt next week. So, yes, this is an awesome story about Jesus being a large crowd in the wilderness. There's more than them. It's Jesus in every way of saying, I am the Messiah. I am the prophet of God promised the Deuteronomy. I am here to replace Moses. Moses was just a shadow of who I came to be. If you understood Deuteronomy, if you understood the Torah, you would understand that it's all about me. Jesus is very clearly making this statement. He is greater than Moses and equal to God. Moses was an intermediary who spoke on behalf of God to the people, and he would take messages from the people back to God.

Jesus is the final, authoritative communication to the people of what God is like. If you want to know what the God of the Bible is like, look at Jesus. And he was the final mediator between us and God. He said, it is finished. The current thing to anyone who wants to come to the Father can freely come to the Father through the blood. He said, Jesus Christ. Romans chapter 8, verse 34 says, Who is the one who condemned? Christ, Jesus is the one who died, but even more was raised. He's also at the right hand of God, interceding for us. That's what Moses did. Everything in every way is better than Moses, except. Except what? And so that's the sixth warning they said. He just went to the other side of the field gallery. Where do we think he was doing that?

He's in the boat. So if you're like a rude, skeptical Jewish person, and you're like, okay, yeah, so you get all that, better, better, better, better. Like, he's with the boat. He's just, Moses just walks across the ground. He's something that's kind of bad stuff. He's just walking on water. So just in case, the skeptical Jew is like, yeah, you're great. All those things are cool, but Moses walked across the island into the water. And Jesus is like, oh, yeah, we're on top of the water. Let's go, all right? So in every way, Jesus is clearly making a statement that he's equal with God. And he's testing these people. How will they respond? Philip, how will you respond? Do you believe that I have the power to see these people? Andrew, do you believe that I have the power to see these people?

And they got the test before the extra miracle, right? Like, they got the test before they got to see the extra work. And Philip, no clue. Andrew, a little bit of the clue. But now the crowd gets to see this incredible miracle. It's in the front of their minds. How will they respond to this test? Verse 14, when the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, this indeed is the prophet. They've got Deuteronomy in their minds. There's a prophet like Moses to come. They know it. They've got it. They understand that this is the prophet who has come into the world. And what is that ultimate response? This is where it gets said. To see him, then, that they were about to come and take him by force to make him come,

Jesus withdrew to give him to the mountain. The crowd gets what Jesus did. They understand the statement that he's making. They say, this is the prophet, the one who has come. What an awesome revelation. He gets the answer right, but they ultimately get the application right. They want to force Jesus to be the type of thing that they want him to do. They want him to come and conquer the Romans right now, take away my problems right now, fix my earthly circumstances right now. If you have the power, you're the prophet, you're going to come with us and do what we want you to do.

Do I need to preach? Or are you guys preaching to yourself right now? Sound like any of us ever? Hey, you, yeah, you're the Son of God. Come here. Come over with me and do the things that I want you to do. You know, the right answer and the wrong application. Can I tell you, I've had a different illustration written down for this, but, of course, yesterday, Saturday morning, yes. I'm in charge of the jewelry, Saturday morning. I'm having to go ahead and get something. And I'm reading a book called The Intentional Father. She's coming out beside me. And I'm a little fussy here and there. And I guess she'd say to, like, really get fussy so much so that Russell was like, what's going on? And she comes out and she's like, when's the last time you leave?

And I look at the phone and it's way past the time that I spoke to see them. Right in the salon application, right? Like, I've got intentional fatherhood in my hands. I'm like, yeah, baby, information overloaded. I had an intentional father. Meanwhile, my baby's sitting right beside me. How often do you get the right answers that the wrong people say? Keep up the wonders. How often do we tell the needs and the nuclear uses to fit our own agendas and to meet our own needs? How often do we make deals with that? If you will just do this thing for me, then I will do what I've been saying. And that's what I've been saying for you for a long time. The crowd took a few times very immediately. All they could think about was their current situation with, under the ruler of pagan government in Rome,

they've got earthly problems, they've got tax collectors breathing down there now. It's like, life is hard. And they want Jesus to come and fix it all right now, eliminate my earthly problems, excuse my earthly enemies, and give me a smooth and easy life.

I don't know about you, but maybe sometimes I feel like that's how I view my relationship with God. I don't know. And that's what I've seen. If I don't please. Provide for that financial situation. Heal that sickness. Do the thing that I need you to do. And if you keep doing the thing that I need you to do, then I'll follow you. Then I will obey you. I've talked about this before in the past, but the problem with this approach is that if Jesus defeated the Romans, this is what happens. Another enemy comes. Another enemy comes. If you defeat the earthly problem, a temporary situation, another temporary situation will arise. If Jesus knows you of your sickness, another one will come. If Jesus provides things financially, the second of life comes on next week, right?

He can't hear you, but he does it always. He can't provide for you financially, but he doesn't always. He can't give you immediate distance of a habitual sin, but he doesn't always. Jesus didn't just come to make your earthly life easier. He came to restore you back to the Father's love, the very thing that you were created for. And because of that, you have a hope for the future. So that no matter what earthly circumstances you might face, no matter how many times a second of life comes on, no matter how many extra steps to a hospital you have to make, there is hope for the future, there is peace in the midst of our circumstances, because Jesus didn't give us a chance to defeat our temporary situations, he came to give us ultimate and eternal hope for the future.

I love what Esau McCauley says. He says, The idea that God is only good when he rescues you from your circumstances is a functional denial of the resurrection. I think it was better that we could have left. The idea that God is only good when he rescues you from your temporary circumstances. It functionally denies the resurrection.

The resurrection gives us hope beyond our circumstances. I would summarize the following message today with one statement, that Jesus isn't always the king that we want, but he's exactly the king that we need. The crowd, they want to force him to be the king that they want him to be. And he's not even interested in it. Proceeding that they were able to take him by force, as if they're kidding, right? He withdrew again to the mountain by himself. He's not interested in you coming to him and telling him what he's going to do for you. But he's very interested. Very interested in you coming with open ears and saying, You be who you are to be. If we truly submit our lives to his readers, that we can experience abundant with us now in eternal life in the future.

Romans chapter 8 says, What thing are we to say about these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He's not scared of his own son, but give him up for us all. How will he not also with him grant us anything? Who can separate us from the love of God? Contemporary circumstances, conflictions, distress, persecution, famine, or nakedness, or fever, or sorts. All of those things are probably worse than what you and I are experiencing right now. No. They can't separate us from the love of God. In all of these things, we are more than conquerors for him who love us. Not that they go away, but as we go through them, we have Jesus with us. In all of these things, no lies, angels, no rulers, and things treasured things to come,

no powers, no heights, no death. Anything positive, creative thing, we will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in your place. Can you say?

He withdraws from the love of God that is in your life. And then he draws near to his disciples, who still have hardly any clue what's going on. You know, just over and over and over again, missing, missing it, missing it, missing it, not having the right information, getting it wrong. He'll ask them a question that you're still wrong. He'll ask them a question. He'll answer it wrong. But it's those people that he draws near to, because they're willing to submit to his leadership. They're willing to go where he tells them to go and do what he tells them to do, even though they don't have all the right answers, even though they don't have all of the questions they've just been memorized, they don't know the Roman's road, they don't know all the right stuff.

When Israel came, his disciples went down to the sea, got into the boat, and started across the sea to command. It was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. The sea became rough, but the strong wind was blowing when they had rowed about three or four miles. Anybody ever been on the ocean in a boat where it was rough? Nothing will make you feel more hopeless than being in a boat in rough waters. My father-in-law takes us fishing, and we're just in the boat, and there's like this, I don't know what you're reading from it on the jetty, goes out from the boat into the ocean, right? So I'm shopping. And I don't swim well. It seems so, like, the moment we start looking all around, I'm like, I'm done. I'm done.

It's over. Thank you. Lord Jesus, help me with you. No matter how good of a system that you are, no matter how long you've lived on the boat, there's a certain level of roughness to your legs. I mean, we're going wherever the water takes. This is the situation that they find themselves in. And Jesus, walking to them on the sea, coming near to them. So the crowd that had the right answer that wanted to force them to do the things that they wanted them to do, he said, I'm not interested in them. You might know all the things. You might understand the claims that I'm making, but if you're not willing to submit to me as Lord and leader of your life, but the crowd that doesn't have the right answers, but the keys to follow him, he draws near to them.

Remember what we said about a test? A test is to reveal your understanding and to invite you into deeper agencies. And he's going to show up. He's going to give it. They don't fully understand. He's going to come to them and invite them into further agencies. He's going to give them more information about himself. He has another example of his faithfulness. He's going to give them to get another example of his faithfulness. He's like, what can I do with you? He's reflecting on the water. And he says to them, in verse 20, it is I, do not be afraid. We're going to tell these seven I am statements throughout the gospel. You know, the grammatical structure of this statement is an illusion to an I am state. Jesus of the century saying, I am not waiting in the flesh of you.

This is walking on water wasn't enough to give you the right information. Let me tell you, it is I, I am. Do not be afraid. A phrase regularly used by the God of Israel to the nation of Israel, who said, I am God. Do not be afraid. And they were going to say, I am. Do not be afraid to give you the right information. So, upon sale, no. Just kind of revealing himself and inviting to people in relationship. If I tell you this morning, there's something about this message that has revealed to you something that's true about love. And then you would see the heart of the Father to invite you into a mutual relationship. I don't know what situation your life intersects with most. Maybe it's a question. You feel like you're in the middle of a spiritual test that you can't seem to understand.

And I encourage you, I invite you to give you this test as an opportunity for God to reveal something about the Father. And to invite you into a deeper agency. I've been sick. We have families and sick persons. Months. Like, it feels like months. And I got pneumonia. It was so bad. I was in the hospital. ER room. And Dr. Green is awesome. He's like watching my church live. And he's like, they've got to take you some CT scan. So, guess what I do? I Google my somethings plus CT scan. Guess what it says? Stage four cancer. You're dead. Like, no options. You're dead. You feel like you've got a week, two weeks, maybe a month. And in that moment, you were doing so much to feel God. I'm like, I start making all kinds of deals with God.

I'm like, we've got to figure this out, please. I need more than a week or a month or a year. Like, give me what I want.

It's an invitation. Do you trust me? Or do you have a day, a week, a month, or 50 years? Are you going to trust me? Because life is so much more than about what happens today. It's about what happens for the rest of eternity. So, do you trust having brightly consider it an opportunity for God to reveal something that's true about what you believe about him? And go into deeper intimacy. Maybe you're in a situation where you like to crowd. You know all the right stuff. You've got all the right answers. But maybe you're like, crap, you're fine. You've gone to church your whole lives. And you've made yourself feel righteous because you have all the right answers. But you're not doing anything that he tells you to do. It means you're interested in your right answers.

It means you're interested in what you're listening to him as Lord. Don't put on a facade. Don't give yourself a fake righteousness because you know a lot of stuff. Where are you on that way to Jesus? If you're making your life to disciples and doing your best to faithfully follow that you're wrestling with that and questions, I encourage you to get into the mirror with other believers and draw a mirror to God because he wants to draw a mirror to you. It's an interesting request. Don't find yourself today to remember that trusting Jesus is Christ, the son of the living God, will lead to abundant life now and eternal life for me. It's an interesting request. We're going to end the service a little bit different. I'm going to read a passage from Psalm 117.

We're going to end the service a little bit different. Think about who Jesus is revealing himself to be. What invitation he's giving us this morning. So if you will, I've been letting you stand and I'm going to read and then you stand to close out his favor. Psalm 117. Oh, do thanks to the Lord for his good, his steadfast love endures forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, who he has redeemed from trouble and gathered in from the land, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south. Some wandered and gathered in the west, finding no way to a city to dwell. And hungry and thirsty, their souls faced it with him. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from the district.

He led them by a straight way, so they reached the city to dwell. Let him thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wonderful work he showed in the name. And he satisfies the longing soul in the home, and the hungry soul he fills with good things. Say anything like that? Story this morning. Sunset and darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners and affliction and in honor, where he had rebelled against the word of God and stern the high council of the most high. And so he bowed their hearts down with hard lady and fell with no need to help. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from the district. He dropped them out of darkness, out of the shadow of death, and burst their bodies of death.

Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the door of the ministry. For he straddles the doors of dawn, and cuts into the bars of the army, and stone with fools through the sanctuaries. For the iniquities fell to the foot, and they rose any kind of food. And as he leered to the gates of death, then they cried out to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them. Do you hear the crowd of them? Cry out to the Lord, and he will deliver you. He said on his word, and healed them, and he delivered them from their destruction. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love. For his wondrous works to the children of men, and let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving, and tell us his songs and songs of joy.

Some went down to the sea, and sits doing business on the great waters. They saw the deeds of the Lord, his wondrous works in the deep. For he commanded and raised the stone and wings, which lifted up the waters of the sea. They mounted up to the heaven. They went down to the depths. Their currents mounted away in their evil plate. They reeled and staggered like drunken men, and when they were out of fear, were they stormed. Anybody that hear which age this morning? They cried out to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their destruction. He made the storm be still, the waves of the sea were from them. Then they were glad that the wilders were closed, and he brought them to their desired cages. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love. For his wondrous works, we refer to you now. Let's worship.
