ALL IN: Your Soul's Health
2023-01-23
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x3BO4HeS7uo

Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I said I'd buy a couple. If anybody wants one, I'd give it to you for free. There are stickers. You've got to read the least half of it. And I only have four links. So I'm just going to put them here. If you would like a copy, I'll get your free copy after the service is over. Praise the Lord. Okay, so let me begin with a caveat. If you are new here and you are not yet a follower of Jesus, this message is going to focus on those who've already said yes to following Jesus. And hopefully it will be relevant for you as well. You'll at least have an understanding of what the Lord and Master of the universe calls us through. But I just want to apologize from the beginning that I'm not focusing on the speaker.

I'm more focusing on the person who says I want to follow. And if you're like me, it doesn't always follow as well as I'd like to follow. There's some obstacles that get in the way.

I wanted to comment. At the end, we're going to get communion, and we're going to do it a little different than we've done it here before. We're using a practice for things for this thing around over 1,600 years. So it's taking the body and the blood, taking the bread and the cup simultaneously as an opportunity to take it individually. Normally, we pick up the elements, we go back, we all take it at once. But in this context, we're going to have one cup at each place, and we're going to take it simultaneously. It's actually called intention, and I'll just demonstrate for you so when we get there, you'll know what to do. There's nothing worse than, like, approaching God and having no clue what to do. And so hopefully I don't do that to you.

Intention is a matter of taking the bread. There'll be someone standing behind. They'll probably say something like, the body of Christ is broken for you. You'll dip it in the cup. Please start to put the fingers down in just a day. Pour it out. And to taste. If that weirds you out, we do have some lunchables over on the side. But we would ask that you not stand there for three minutes trying to take that thing apart while everyone's waiting. So just grab it and move off to the side and partake of it individually. This is your moment at the table with cheeses. If you are not yet a follower of Jesus, and yet in this message, God is tricking your heart, God is touching your heart, and you say, you know what? Jesus, I think, I think I want to step into your kingdom.

I think I want to take you to your word. But then he invites you to come at that moment, because salvation is not about getting your life together when you're coming to God. It's about acknowledging your life is not together and coming to God so that he can do something about them. And so this is an opportunity to come and partake of his broken body, his shed blood for the forgiveness of sins, for you, that you might have new life in Christ. And if you do that, and it's the first time, it's probably a good idea afterwards to tell someone to be respected and safe, because they'll help nurture you. I would love it if you told me. I mean, I would stand for those days and get excited, because I think God gets really excited about that stuff.

But you can tell any of the worship leaders. You can tell Pastor Ryan. You can tell me, by the way, I'm passing out. One of the other pastors are just several weeks to shepherd here. So, two weeks ago, money, all in, doing it, last week's body, all in, doing it, taking care of it. This week, I'd like to talk about your soul. And this is really why it's geared more towards believers. Jesus said this. He said, you know, if you win the billion-dollar lottery and yet lose your soul, what is he going to do? He didn't say lottery, I know that. But he actually said if you gain everything, you get it all, and you lose your soul, you get nothing. Two years ago, I was spring cleaning, and I was out at my garden, and the garden was running up against the garage, and I was raking leaves.

And I was by the grass, and by the end, and I hadn't done my fall cleaning. You're supposed to, like, get those leaves off of some of the stuff. And leaves, if you're leaving there all winter, I'm piled up. What do they do? Say it loud in loud. They're raking up. Yeah. And so I'm scraping some of these rotten leaves off of the stuff that I could have taken care of, and I'm scraping it off. Here is this plant that I absolutely love, that I didn't tend to in the fall, and it is this yellow, rinky, and it was almost dead, just laying on the ground as I pulled the leaves off. I said, oh, I can't believe that. And yet, I came back a week later, and that wilted yellow plant, in one week's exposures to the sun, they tall, it was green, it was purple, and it was bigger.

So, such a thought, the plants that God, the seeds that God planted in you, when you said yes to Jesus, was a living thing. You became new. You became, Jesus talks about a thing, born again. You got to start all over. Something came alive inside of you, and that rice inside of you, by this very nature, grows. We often talk about, what do we do to grow? Well, what I want to say is, this morning, in Matthew 18, what Jesus teaches us in order to grow, is we need to simply scrape off all of those rotten leaves that we've let stick on top of our plant, and cause wilting, and cause yellowing, and cause acidity. You scrape it off, and you're going to grow. It's what we're seeing. And so, I would like to go through Matthew 18, and just show a couple of those.

And I'm going to try to take Jesus' approach to this. Jesus, he frustrates some of us preachers. He says, he'll make a point in one sentence, and then he'll get the same illustration, he'll make another point, and he'll move on to the next point, and he'll move on to the next point. And after three or four points, maybe he'll land on one, and you'll unpack that. And I would feel this need to, like, elaborate on every point. I think probably the problem is that Jesus trusted the Holy Spirit, and I had a difficult time doing that. And so, I'm going to try to take a bit of a Jesus style. The points that he just kind of mentions and moves on, I'm going to try to mention and move on. And then the one obstacle that he kind of lands on, and he hangs out for the rest of Matthew 18, I want to take some time and unpack for you.

I'm going to talk about the miserable rotten leaves that you're allowing to grow over top of your life-giving plant that you intended to grow. So, Sarah, can we do that today? Okay. So, the first one, pride. Jesus finds this little child, and by the way, I was hoping, Rachel, that your kittens are going to be running around their kids. I was going to pick them up. You know, that's going to be my object lesson, because Jesus just did that, you know? And you just see the kid running around, and you pick them up. And he said, you know what, guys? You need to become like this one. And in fact, not only do you need to become like this one, but those who are vulnerable like this little kid equals greatness in the kingdom of God.

Boom. And then Jesus goes and changes the whole illustration. He's got the same freaking kid in his arms, and instead of talking about the kid, he talks about you, and you know what? If you don't have that little kid in, if you don't receive that kid, if you don't receive that kid, you've got an obstacle called judgmentalism. Pride speeding over time is the light that God has buried in your heart, and will wilt it. So, we'll judge that to listen. Now, Jesus went on, and forgive me, I can't. I can't say just a little bit. Because one of the favorite verses that people love to use is, judge not, let's be judged. And when they use that, what they usually mean by that is, I am doing something I know I probably shouldn't be doing.

You know I probably shouldn't be doing it. And I don't want you to tell me that I shouldn't be doing it. So, judge me, lest you be judged, you know? And it's just, it's kind of, you know, the Bible has two parts about that. Judge not, lest you be judged. And on the other side of that one, is he that a spiritual judges, no, no, no, no, no. He that a spiritual judges all things. There's a distinction. I don't judge you. But we are called to judge the nature. I mean, how cruel is it a parent who never corrects the behavior of their child? If you never correct the behavior of their child, you'll end up raising your child to think that mausling off all the time is a good idea and it's going to work until they get into a bar and they get popped and hopefully it's a fish to not again.

Conversely, never be rid of a child. Have you just met me? Did you see a parent that just screams at your kid and be middle of them? Have you ever been that parent? Have you ever thought you felt? I don't know if I told this to you, if I did, forgive me. But at one point I was yelling at my son. He was like 16, 17 years old. I don't remember what he did. But I was sick. And I'm letting him have it. And his friends are sitting in the room. And this is in Boston, Ohio, a rather conservative town. We were probably the least sick parents in my son's friend group, you know. We were talking about it. I love to hang out a lot of us because we let him do things that the other parents were like not sure.

But I'm just railing on him and his other kids are like watching this. And my son looks at me and goes, Dad, you're all here. And you get down here. All of his friends thought I said a problem. But he was freaking wrong.

I mean, kids don't like to be told. There's so much that you're there. Coach mentalism will come to you. But don't fear by that that we don't take the time to love. Well, the phrase we often have used here for years that says, I love you just the way you're all. I love you too much to leave you there. Tell us. Get that all here. Okay. I think you get it. Number three, Jesus kind of moves on and he talks about causing temptation. You know, sin loves company. In fact, I think that sin often tries to entice others into the same behavior. Because if we're doing something that violates God's law, we know it. Part of it we know because of our conscience. Part of it because of creation. Part of it because of teaching.

If you're a Christian, it's because the Holy Spirit is there and he's working on you. But if we can normalize our sinful behavior, somehow we don't quite feel so blessed. I get a lot of people doing it. You know, what's the excuse? Well, they're doing it. And I don't like you about that and I said, I'm not that bad. Causing temptation. You know, this one actually, Jesus gives a woe. He said, it's inevitable. It's coming. He's emancipating. It's not coming. It's inevitable. But woe to the person who brings it. So Jesus regularly rows me. I want to be roused by Jesus, but not worried by Jesus. So, causing temptation. Now, there's one more and then I'm going to get to the name one. Jesus talks about good things that lead to sin. In this passage, he says, if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out.

Are the eyes good? I like my eyes. They're really helpful. Your hand causes you to sin. Cut it off. By the way, lest you think I'm going there, this is not an encouragement to actually pluck your eye out. I heard John stop there a long time ago. He said, you know, if plucking my eye out could deal with lust in my body would be great. But unfortunately, I don't expect an eye to see. And then he said, if you pluck out both eyes, I have enough illicit images in my brain that I can lust for two decades without any other eyes. So, it's not about pulling out your eyes. It's not about cutting off your image. But the point that Jesus is making is even the good thing, the valuable thing, if it's dragging you into, if it becomes, if it itself becomes a pile of leaves sitting on top of

the life-giving birth that God has created in you, can you get ready? Okay. So, I have to go fast, and what I want to do now is get to the one that Jesus can't find. And he can't find it for a pretty long time. Because here's the deal. Pride will destroy your soul. Judgment. Judgmentalism will destroy your soul. It's like I do someone, this thing to mind, one time liking it to, it's like we try to hold hands with someone, but before we hold hands, we take stars of glass and put them in our hand, and then grab their hand with pride out of it. There's many of them. And there's no real relationship there. But on this one, unforgiveness, folks, unforgiveness will do you again. The Bible often talks about a root of bitterness.

Do you know roots will crush the foundation of a home? Now, they don't do it automatically. I think if roots were, like, aggressive, we would get a war against them. But they've got a little slow way of doing it. It looks pretty when a first comes up. A little close to the house, but you don't notice it. And then over time, a little piece of roots can get a tree, and it looks like no big deal. But over time, unattended roots will get in and stand and literally destroy the foundation of a house. That's why the Scriptures talk about bitterness, that thing that we nurture, the unforgiveness that we tend to give food to, that we can do all right, it's like a root, and excessive. You know, my dad, he was a part of the Lord, I don't know, four or five times.

She didn't grow up a Christian. When I became a Christian, it was always like a rule of hope, you know, it was a plan, and it was going to be a cool thing all day, and I need to go on, and I need to stay. And his first conversion prayer was before his first open-heart broken surgery. Back in those cities, they kept you open for all of them. Now, they must crack them all open, thank God, but crack them open. And before that, he was scared, asked to, you know, pray for him, wanted to accept Jesus, I said, sure. And he was like that, he's on the rocky floor, and it became, three days later, after the surgery, he came out loud, and he just touched him down. And then he gave us a second time, and the third time he did bypass surgery, I was actually

in Toronto, and I was supposed to be preaching at our denominational, binational, every other year, and I got out in my, and doing a keynote speech, and they were driving him from Harrisburg to Washington, D.C., because if he did the surgery in Harrisburg, I'm like 50% chance of living, and they called me, let me know, and I have to apologize on the cutout of the drinking engagement, but there's three little kids in the car, and Lori and I drove through the night to get down and to lose my dad. But, man, I was not going to do another one of those, especially when you want to accept Jesus and the three of them in those fields. I remember talking to him, and I remember asking if I'd pray for him, and here was why. He said, now, when I want you to pray for me, and I want to talk about prayer, because

my prayer just boils off the spine, and he used it for him, and I want to know why. And I said, Dad, I'm going to pray for you, and then, how do you come in with this company? We had a couple of weeks later, and he was talking about it, and here's the deal, folks. Prayer is nothing more than a conversation with someone that you met. And I said, Dad, what the challenge we were is you're having a conversation. You're telling me you have a conversation with someone you don't know. And in that context, not under the fear of the knife, he had survived that. We had a meaningful conversation here, the conversion prayer, I was still pretty cynical. And I was really cynical until about a month and a half later, I talked to him.

I said, Dad, how is it going with that, talking to God, that prayer sentence? He said, I don't know, but, you know, I've had grudges or cookies that I'm not forgiving him. But that's what uses things. In fact, the Bible connects our forgiveness to our forgiveness pretty profoundly. And, perhaps, it makes me uncomfortable, but I don't get to write the Scriptures. I don't want to get to preach them. Matthew 5 said, Blessed are the merciful, because they shall receive mercy. You know, the passage of Scripture that you probably have memorized, probably, like, 98% of you, it's the Lord's Prayer. It's actually the church's prayer. Our Father, the Lord in heaven, you know that prayer? Why is it we, like, lead up those two lines that follow it? We get all the way to the part where Jesus then says, that if you don't forgive another,

they're saying, neither will my Heavenly Father forgive you. That's what he says. And if you're one of those folks who says, well, that's not for our age, that's for another age, you look like James 2, 13. For judgment is without mercy to one who has, for judgment is without mercy to one who has shown on mercy. There is this connection between God's forgiveness giving in us a transformed life that just most naturally begins to forgive. And when we, fortunately, when bitterness wells up in our lives, we can tend to make sure it's a little bit like doves. When you take it, you feel better for a period of time. If you take it in excess of a mouth, you feel a whole lot better until the next morning. And if you take it in excess of a mouth over a long period of time, you have to become addicted to it.

And you can't feel normal without it. All of life gets focused around this unforgiveness, this bitterness, this resentment that you hold in your life. And while you're taking doses of it in order to feel normal, all the while it's destroying the very innards of your body. The alcohol will over time destroy your liver. And so, too, bitterness will destroy the liver of your spirit that produces, which processes toxins in your life. And you become unable to even process those toxins. I mean, there are so many things out of it. And so, God is saying, folks, I want you to kill him. And if you have that unforgiveness, that's a great blessing. For us, this message will talk about how Jesus tells us to scrape it off. Okay. First of all, have you heard the phrase, forgive and forget?

Forget that phrase. I like the phrase, forgive and forgo, and we'll get more to it later. But forgiveness is not about forgetting. If someone's violated you and they repeatedly violate you, I don't encourage you to forget it. I encourage you to forget it, but I also encourage you to get a bondage, to get means by which they can't continue to violate you. I mean, violation is not a healthy thing for you or for them. So, forget to forgive and forget. And one of the ways we do that, Jesus, when he begins his conversation about forgiveness, tells us to, when someone does something against you, go to them.

How many people have you known that they just, they're telling you about how bad this person treated them, and all the stuff that they've done, and how it's ruining their life, and how it's so miserable, and they can't feel like they can go to work. And you go, well, what are they for when you talk to them? I didn't. Jesus starts to say, go talk to them. But here again, I'm going to take the question off. Confronting is not accusing. I can't tell you how many times I've gone to someone, and in a conversation, I've realized, oh boy, it was my misdeception. I didn't get it. So, when you go, you don't go with guns loaded. Confronting is care-fighting. It's saying, if something's not right, and we need to work at this and get it right, you know, there's a story of a Winchester resident at the beginning of the Civil War.

Edward Shepard was a night watchman in the Winchester Potomac Railroad, and as he was doing his nightly rounds, there were a bunch of armed men up on a bridge. He realized this wasn't good, turned around and started walking away. They yelled at him and told him to stop, and he began to run away, and they shot him in the back. What's ironic about that is John Brown's abolitionist militia, who was crusading against slavery in the South, just shot a black, unarmed spring man in the Boston, just on the feet of his feet.

I think, and your son just said, the conflict of it is. See it? Folks, the goal of confrontation is not confronting. It's reconciliation. The goal of confrontation is not throwing yourself around you. It's reconciliation. And I know, I know, it can be really difficult. But here's my litmus test for confronting. You can take this away, if you don't remember anything else I said. If you feel like confronting, you probably should. And if you don't feel like confronting, you probably should. Confronting is the first step of getting to the place of truly forgiveness. Because if someone continues and continues, in fact, you're going to have someone who, I mean, they're violating you, and they don't even know it. They don't realize it. It's not in their heart. I'm having one just this week. I know it wasn't a big thing.

But man, there was a wonderful confrontation. I mean, wonderful. If it was someone that I greatly respected, I mean, just a honor of her in the eighth degree, if there was a thing that I'm like, you're really positive to me. And I talked to him and she said, oh, I had no idea. Wow. Done. Over. Praise the Lord. But Jesus is willing to say that if you confess and you can't get resolution, I want you to then find another person and go with the other person. See, here's the other place where sometimes we think confronting is the goal. And so it's like, oh, I did my, I did my part. And then our goal is not to confront. The goal is reconciliation. And so you go back. And you say, look, we haven't, we haven't arrived at this and we can't do it.

So let me, let me bring someone. And by the way, if I ever get a free party, I try to pick someone they trust. I always try to pick someone that, that they respect more than me. Because I'm like, you know, bring the third person. In fact, Jesus takes it all the way up to, to tell the church. But again, it, it's not so much about church discipline, it's about church reconciliation. Okay. When you work at reconciliation, it's fascinating that Jesus, in Matthew 18, gives this incredibly powerful promise. And it's a promise that often is, is, um, misused. And the way they misuse it, I don't mind because the concept they're saying is clear. You know, if you, if you have a, a group of people, two or three people that are studying the Bible, Jesus is there, and the Holy Spirit is there.

And I believe that. I, I actually believe that. But this promise is not about that. This promise is about conflict resolution. So when you're stuck into a, a, a, a, a concerning history, and you know what you need to do, you're rehearsing it your mind ten times, you're looking at your own soul fifteen times, and you finally say, we need to talk about it. Jesus says, if you will do that, I promise you, a special promise that I'm going to show up. And if when you and the other person do it, if you can't make it, bring it a third, because I'm going to show up a great. If there are two or three gathered in my name, it's got to be in his name. If you come in the humility of Christ, and you say, you know what, there's unforgiveness here. Let's break it off, and let's start by getting it right between you and me.

All right, you know, I, I do this, um, if you have a spouse, look at your spouse, you know. Too often, I wish to, that what they did was just wrong. Okay, you go. I need some more. That's what I said, but I won't. Okay.

Forgiveness comes to mercy and leads to mercy. I love this part of this way. Jesus is talking about forgiveness. And, and Peter prays up, and, and Peter thinks he is going to get an award for being incredibly forgiven.

In rabbinic law, the rabbinic law had, had dialed in this whole forgiveness thing, saying, if someone offends you, three times, you must forgive him. It comes really from a passage in Amos, Amos chapter one, and Amos chapter two, which repeats over and over and over and over and over again, the same little phrase. And the phrase is, um, for three transgressions, and for four. And then again, for three transgressions, and for four. And so, the rabbis talked about that, and they concluded that certainly man is not more merciful than God. And if Amos distinguishes between three and four, we must forgive three times. And so, it, it, it concretizes in Rabbi Josiah Ben-Yuda, who said, if a man commits an offense once, forgive him. If a man commits an offense twice, forgive him. If a man commits the same offense three times, forgive him.

The fourth time, they do not forgive him. So, Peter's like, yeah, I'm going to get one up on Jesus here. The law says three times, Jesus, how about twice as much as the law plus one? And Jesus' response, and I'm paraphrasing here, knucklehead, no, not seven times, seventy times seven. You don't get it. And then he goes on to tell this story about an unmerciful servant. There's this guy who owns, who owns 10,000 pounds. You know, I know we don't trade in pounds today, so just a little context. One time was the equivalent of 20 years of wages for a day laborer. One time. So, this guy owns 10,000 pounds, 20 years of wages of a day laborer. This is impossible about seven times. And the master says, you must pay. He says, I did.

He says, I'll sell his kids, sell his wife, sell his stuff, sell him in prison. And he begs them, please, please forgive me, please forgive me, I'm sorry, I'll tell you. Whatever, I'll do it. Which, if you get to it, I'll do it. But he's trying, I'll tell you. And the master of love, mercy, help you please him and forgive him. You know the story, right? And then the guy goes out, he's walking down the hall, and he sees a guy who owes him about three months' force of wages. He grabs them, he throttles them, says, call me. The guy says, I can't. And he gives the exact same plea. He says, oh, forgive me, forgive me, I'll tell you, I'll tell you, I promise, I'll tell you. I've got this business here. I'm going to make it work.

Don't worry, I'll tell you. And the guy goes, no way, and he throws them in prison until I can tell you. And some of the guys who were in the room, at those times, seated, goes and tells the master. And when he tells the master, here he tells you the story. The master was moved with anger and handed him over to the torturer until he would pay all that was owed him.

So, too, will my heavenly Father be the same to you, that each of you does not forgive his brother from your heart. And I'd like to end by talking about forgiveness from the heart, because I don't know that you, but it's not an easy thing to do. There's a temperate priest in the 70s, praise God, a Catholic priest in the 70s, Father John Powell, who wrote a book in one of the chapters, I can't remember the book, I wish I could, but I remember the lesson. He talked about the stages of forgiveness and getting the place where we forgive from the heart. If you're committing, I'd like to walk you through this. He says the first level of forgiveness is cliché. I say cliché. This is where your eight-year-old and your six-year-old are fighting over the gun truck.

The six-year-old has it, the eight-year-old attacks it, the six-year-old grabs it, rips it out, they start to fight, the six-year-old clots the eight-year-old in the head with the metal that's like it. Crimes and frees, mother hears about it, mother runs in, mother yells at them, decides what happens, and she gets them done like a fart, and then she says, I want you to apologize to your brother for hitting him. But you took my trust. No, I apologize. You can't, I'm going to take the trip away if you don't apologize. Now you tell your brother you accept it. You look in a little bit, you tell them now, and then after that, you know, they'll hug one another. Those kids have no clue what you're talking about. It's true, son. And by the way, Leslie makes fun of kids.

How many of us? Oh, I forgive you. And you just know in their voice. What do you see in the marriage? Oh, it's not about forgiveness. Very? Okay. Here's that. Old Pile says, under the grace, so inside of the cliche of your heart is just the fact. And this is where you can ask for many more things. What is it that needs forgiveness? Often, we can't even identify the same that is turning inside of us. But being able, you do realize that every time that forgiveness is required is because there's been a loss involved. I mean, it might be the loss of a gun truck. It might be the loss of paying for living. It might be the loss of reputation. It might be the loss of money. It might be the loss of purity.

I mean, there's all kinds of losses. And because we've lost something, there's hurts. And because there's hurts, that forgiveness becomes part of it. And Father John Pile says, a step is being able to at least mean what the offense is. But then he says, underneath that, naming the offense, this is what I need to forgive or what I need to forgive him. He says, it's in values and judgment. And he says, it's here is the beginning place of true biblical forgiveness. This is the place where, this is the place where you say, you know what? You owe me. And I choose not to correct on this day. This is the place you do real. This is a choice. It's a choice that's empowered by the Holy Spirit. It's a choice that, it's a, it's a, it's a, I have to straighten the leaves off of that

corner. And it's an important act. It's a part of it. And it requires prayer. It requires infusion of pure power into your life. I had a, a business partner. I mean, my best friend, he was a, he was a spiritual father. I didn't like that. I didn't like that. And my forgiveness is absolute. My behavior was in line with it. I chose not to correct on the cross. That's the day that, two years later, I heard a voice in my cross. Because I wasn't for it to you. My forgiveness was not, it was from my will. It was not from my heart. And you find yourself in the cross. And you're arguing with the person that you forgave and they're not in the cross. It's probably an indicator that there's some more work to be done.

For God, there's some more miserable, rotten leaves sitting on top of that path of your life than God has intended to store a secret. And the Lord is encouraging you to take the next step in scraping those leaves off of that path. This is the place where I used to yield from my spirit. This is the place where freaking astral healing comes as you seek to yield to the act of God. This is the place where you say I'm tired of drinking that type of bitterness. Although it makes me feel better in the moment. Because it's destroying the innings of my life and soul. It keeps me the place where God wants it to grow.

But when I was 16, I was riding in the back of a motorcycling sport. And we were going to lay it down. And then my leg came down on the exhaust thing. And you know how exhausting is, like, real slow. And real slow, slow, like a knife. And they just cut the skin. And then second, third degree bones. And they go back towards the house. And we can't tell his mom that the bike's out. And she throws a scrape. And so she starts rubbing it over one place for her. I mean, we're going to do the first thing so far. You know? And this is better than just a good burn for your mom. I had to use it up on one hand. And when my mom took it off and they just puffed all over the place and they go, I hate it.

So for months, if you got near my leg, I'd push you away. I couldn't wear proofs. If parents touched that spot, it was excruciating pain. And then once I got, well, I could wear shorts. If you were to walk up, then I thought you might just bump it. It was. And sometimes with the pain and the thirst that we have, where we need to forgive, it's like this. We're fearful. Because we've got a thirst. I mean, it really hurts.

But when you get to the place of forgiving from the heart, so I can show you the mark, and I still have a scar, but it doesn't control my behavior at all. The scar is it. It's the affecting who I am and how I behave. It doesn't.

God wants to do a work in your life that is so profound and so supernatural. It is not just an act of the real sin. It seems like it's left on this day, but you can actually be like Jesus, who on the cross thinks of God for those little people who just stuck near the same place. By the way, if you say, well, how can you get there? Folks, all of his ministry and life, he was practicing the rest of forgiveness. And then knowing he was going into the cross, he did business in the Garden of Gethsemane. He dealt with forgiveness preemptively. I know what's coming. I'm going to do business with God at the beginning because I want to be able to hang on that cross, and I want to look at the people who are sticking nails in my hand and nails in my feet and say,

Father, forgive them. I want to look at the people for whose sin through all creation I am pulling the rest of God on the cross for. I look at them and say, they don't know what they're doing. That's the place where you're supposed to be in the works, and that's the work that I'm inviting you into. As we partake of his sin, blind, and being commanded. Or so, team, you can come on in. What is on pass is there's one last day that meets the place of the core. This is a deep-seated place where God has just gone to my life for this work. This is Mandela. I think he gets out of prison and invites some of those state folks in his cabinet. And then Father John says this, and it just, it took me, it took me a bit of a way.

He said, because forgiveness requires some kind of love, the process is a process of grieving. And all of us know that grieving isn't something that you're in total control of.

It takes time, it takes work. And the area of forgiveness, it takes time, it takes work, and it takes a profound input from the Holy Spirit. By the way, if you don't have that input from the Holy Spirit, if you, if your plant hasn't ever given birth to you, man, you'd love to experience that joy or freedom. But the table will be here for you, say yes to Jesus. But if you're like me and you've said yes to Jesus 150 times, and you're saying yes again today, because, Lord, I know there's more work that you want to do with anything, we're going to invite you to the table. James Earl Macy, great African-American preacher, theologian, tells us about a soul that beckons to God and sees obstacles that keep us from what a soul beckons.

There are times when the soul aches and touches God. Weight is intense, forceful, unstubbering. It gnaws within, gripping the consciousness with authority and unrelenting hold. It's a sign of a growing distance between the soul and God. The inward ache will refuse to yield except to run upon which it comes. Folks, this morning, your heart's broken. You can give him your broken heart. You can give him your fragmented life. When you cannot be out, you've got to give him all the peace. He wants it on.

Let me review these with five steps. Number one, name a particular reference. Something God is doing working on life. Name these things. And just with that, pray, Lord, I forgive Charlie's word. Name it up.

Then acknowledge the judgment of God. The Lord, I forgive you. This is my will. That is in judgment. My truth not to collect on this thing. And the last God of the spirit of God. Lord, would you read us? Would you release feelings of bitterness and revenge and hatred? God, would you do this in me? I don't want to live with God. I don't want to live with God. I don't want to live with God.

Let me ask God to help you release, truly release. No longer argue with someone while you're in the car and they're not. Truly release this person from your judgment. But why don't you close the litmus test? Because we added this story a little. Because often you think where they live and never get to the place where we realize we're in. Like, have you ever done the keto test and then you came on a little stick and it gets broke on your different ketones? Or you've done a COVID test and you've done, like, two more lines and the rest of the second one. This is where the second line is for the devil. Write a blessing for the person. Wherever you need to be able to go, sit down and write a full-strouted, all-home, awesome blessing upon this image.

And if it's hard, don't be discouraged, don't call it. It just needs to go down to step one in front of the other. And he says, you might have to do that for a couple months. It might be grieving as a weird way to take on life for the challenge. But I promise you, on the authority of God's words, that if you will trust him, his forgiveness is complete. And his forgiveness produces complete forgiveness in the heart of the reason he will say yes to him and follow. As our worship team is spinning.
