Spiritual Stations: The Way of the Mystic
2023-02-20
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3p_06S0vt9c

Thank you. Well, good morning. My name is Kent. I don't know if I can. For those of you who don't know me, I mean, we were talking this morning, as I was going to say, of us in this different place to die. Let's take a good time, what are you? I'm sorry. Just to only let everybody know a little more, this is one of six places we're doing, for those who don't know me, if you need, based on an inventory for the small quiz you can take. If you have it taken, yes, we'll be available in the bag. Can you take answers? I think it's 13 questions. And it's over 4A in this field, and how you both close down and how you can stretch for last day. And if we can get it up on this screen, it would be useful, thank you.

So, today we'll be in the bottom left quadrant, but it's important to know that that doesn't mean that that's beaten. We're not pigeonholing you, as Matt said last week. This is an area of code, and we're all men of hearts. You'll probably find us if you are in multiple places on this grid, and you don't score just in one of the games. It's just to help you think it through and understand how you both you conceptualize that and how you approach that. Last week, after someone came up to me, and they were concerned because they took on the cruise, and they had no servant to think that we're supposed to be servants, and what's wrong with it? And the cruise don't read it that way. It doesn't mean, it doesn't mean you're going to serve it.

It means that you don't see yourself approaching God as you serve it. I'm getting an idea of the record. If you have a, not Russell's last week, but it's a love language, I think I'm familiar with the, you know, the multiple ways that we wrestle out to one of these, and it's important to know your love language so that you can know how to communicate as well. And also, so you know your spouse's love language, you know how to communicate to them well, and it's just similar to you, but the tragedy in the love language is when you can't hear someone because you don't understand their language, right? It's just kind of just isolating the moment if someone tells you, you don't do it well, right? So it's really important to know the language so that you can hear your spouse and their people.

And I think that's analogous to this. There are people in the congregation who do that, you know, they're almost all in that serving group, for example, and they serve God, they really feel the worship, they feel the presence of God when they serve, and they'll come to you and say, Hey, do you want to help me watch this word or something, right? And you're like, no, I'm going to go do something godly while you still do it. And that can be a really refreshing, you know, I'm trying to share something dear with you, and you didn't hear it, you know? So for unity, for understanding our soul and love, for understanding the average of our nations, because, you know, we, as a belief kind of approach, I just believe in, over time and the points people have done, it's really important to understand this, and internalize it, and feel it through stuff, all sorts of things. So that's what we're doing right now. And today, of course, we are talking about the ministry.

So my path to here, as I'm guessing, because I don't know why I'm not choosing here to do a sense of, you know, these things that are domestic, right? And that's right. When I was at five, when I first felt God, when I first understood that I wanted, you know, this Christmas, it was what I wouldn't have called a domestic experience at the time, but it was in the soul. It was in the what, you know? And so it's been very important to you as an adult to grow up on a, you know, very similar to study all that, and I really kind of rigorously get the underpinnings of them, and so that, you know, my trust will all cause a large extent, even if my native language would be problemistic. I actually went to seminary because I've come to the point where I had one part of a lesson that took the Bible,

and it was John. John spoke to me. And John, and the only thing I'm supposed to ask him, I believe there's historical descriptions. There's propositional stories sometimes. And John says, I know more. He's usually talking to me. So I touched him. I felt it like I knew this. And he's somewhere kind of knew this place. And so I wanted to read the group that I wanted to understand if you remember that, and I hope so thank you. And of course, when I went to study, you know, the time that I should get over on some of the things, I'm not going to see you. I snuck it a lot more about your interest in me than just my hands. But one thing I did find somewhere, and I can't do it in person anymore, but I'm curious to go.

He was a person who, with great intellectual liberty, perceived the mystic life, right? And there was a connection in there, so that we were all in many parts, and there's a place to see all of these. And I would encourage you to explore it and all. With that being said, how many of you, when you say mystic, kind of in your mind what you thought was, I don't know, ancient word of creation? What do you think it's taken? Do you know? Okay, but that's reasonable. It's a common thing. How many of you thought, yeah, that's one way to go, if you turn off your head and your theology, you know? Is that okay? That's what we're doing. And how many of you, it's sort of like listening to music. You thought, well, of course you listen to this soul.

What else are you going to do? What else? Is there anybody who's put the stuff up for people who are going to just take care of you? We don't know. We don't know, but they're not used to.

It is important to understand, to give us all this interpretation called mystery meanings, and it is quite simply the desire to touch the end, right? To touch the mystery. And when we say mystery, I mean mystery and mystical comes from the same briefly in Sturionic, and it's talking about mystery as in, I'm saying, there's not understood secrets. But the authors of the Old, the New Testament were speaking to the Hebrew, especially from the extent of mystery, they meant a much, the Hebrew concept, which is deep, impenetrable. And I don't mean you sitting on the beach in a chair. I mean you just stepped into the middle of the Pacific, right? You're here in this vast, horizon to horizon, powerful place where you can't survive in your life. It's deeper than your life. I understand you can't see through it.

It is profound. That's the mystery. You don't know what's happening, right? You don't know what you're here. You don't know what you're here. You don't know what you're here.

I mean, they're talking about the mystery. They're talking about Christ specifically. God become man, right? And as an interesting point, does anybody know, Christ only spoke about the mystery one time. He used that phrase one time. Does anybody know when it was? Did you say this to raise your hand? I didn't answer to your question. Okay. It's the parable of the sower, and it's recorded in all three synoptic Gospels, and Christ said, to you is forgiven the mystery of the kingdom of heaven, but through the outside, everything comes in parables, so that I see you, and I see you, and I see you, and I perceive you, and I hear you, and I hear you, and I understand you. Otherwise, I might return, and it will be forgiven you. And that's a troubling passage for a lot of us.

It's just been done, and maybe you don't want to forgive us. That's unheary. But he said this in the context of it. He just told the parable of the sower, which is, a man went out and spread seed, which we know is the word of God. He says, that's the word of God. And the seed can take root and grow into it. He says, you can prepare souls, where the sower is ready, but in souls where it's rocky or where there's birds or where it's hot, this is a key tent of Greek. And they said, well, why are you talking about some parables? And he said, why do you need to ask? I just told that parable about certain parables, right? So he used at least three things when he told them as parables, and the first is he's explaining

why he used these parables. Rabbi Yosef once explained that a parable is a basket of handles, the idea being there's important, valuable fruit, there's seed, there's stuff that's in there, but you don't need it all right now. You can't use it all right now. So the parable allows you to carry the fruit around until the day you're ready to grow. Right? You can dig around in there and get what you need out of it. Right? It's a story that's what most of parables needed with me. And so he's told a parable, about certain parables, well, the seed is I can't always take root, so you need to tell it to them in a way that they can carry it with them. He's also referencing in this Isaiah, he's telling me a part of the apostles about the

job they're about to be in a long time. When this phrase, hear and you may hear and understand, I'm seeing you might see and not proceed, that was first said by Isaiah in the Old Testament. The Bible said to Isaiah, man, do I have a miserable job for you, and then sends you out to tell people something that no one's going to listen to, and you've got to keep doing it, right? And you've got to tell them over and over, and you're not going to listen to them. You've got to keep doing it, that's your job. And, but he's told them, right, because it's a seed that will take root, and he says that these people will be taken into this captivity, and a remnant will grow out of it, and a new Jerusalem will be built, and out of that, God's purpose will be fulfilled.

And the disciples are standing at the moment of that fulfillment, but when they hear this miracle, right, the fruit is happening. Christ has just been born in this new, the fulfillment of Isaiah's promise is happening, as they speak. And Christ is saying, that seed that's right, it's going to grow, and guess what? You're going to keep spreading the seed, and it will grow over time into the kingdom, right? So that's the second thing he's saying with this. And that implies there is a time and a place where you sit here. He doesn't want you to accept and repent when you just have a proposition of the script. He wants you to repent, repent, and hear the word, and the word down of him when your soul is written to the word to grow on you, and where the implication here is, it's when you

know the mystery, right? Because the third part of this, that Christ definitely means, is the ocean, right? This passage is written a little differently in Luke, and in Luke it says, to you it has been granted to know the mystery, the other who told him correctly. Does he say it's been granted to you to understand what I just said? He did not. Did he say, to you it's been granted the description or the solution? No, it's been granted to know the mystery. Who's the mystery? And you just want to be right about it. Christ. To you it's been granted to walk around with me. You have been chucked into the ocean, right? Everybody else is in on me. They haven't been hanging out with me. They don't know me. They don't even know in the experiential sense, right?

So all these people that are in on me, I tell them in clever stories that will make them want to see the ocean. I tell them in clever stories so that when they see you, they'll recognize it, right? So that's the first thing to care about. And you guys are granted to know the mystery. So I'll start to encourage you to know me. That's the basic, the main basis of mystic understanding. And that's, you know, what we know about what John talks about, is the desire to know the mystery, not understanding the mysticism. This thing would be touching the ocean from very clearly home to me, to knowing your experience or something that you can never know through teaching. One day we went to Melissa and I were hitchhiking around Scotland, so that's what you should

do here, kind of see. We hitchhiked around Scotland. We put on the rubber boots in the middle of winter and walked out into the North Sea in the dead of night. Kind of like a cool one. And then that, it's a long, we felt, and we had a long way to walk. But we got about, what, felt like three miles, it was probably a couple of our feet. Out into the water, and first of all, it's winter in Scotland, so there's no stars. It's so real, but it depends. It's freezing a little bit. And I mean, we were just surrounded. The same sensation was coming from every direction. Any sounds of every direction, can't see a thing. The same temperature of every direction, just freezing. We had no idea what might be on the water in the ocean.

Now, rationally, we knew we were staying deep in the ocean, nothing was going to happen. But I instantly understood why all the people in all the maps wrote, sure, there'd be dragons. Right? There could have been anything out there. And the only experience we have of, you know, is behind you or holding next to you, knowing a person in that moment. And no amount of understanding about the ocean prepared me for the experience of being engulfed in it. Right?

It's a fearful thing to be in the hands of a living God, they tell us in Hebrew. It's a fearful thing to be cuffed into the ocean and recognize the smallest thing. And everything you knew is really not relevant. I knew about salt water. I didn't know. Yeah. I might be. I mentioned to you earlier, and just to point out that mystic is not the opposite of sin. And one of the things that we can do, the proof and kids about it, is that he rationally understands the unknown. Like, that is unknown, but we still have to interact with the rationale. Right? We don't feel all those way. And the maps we do that with the concept of oneness, that's pretty negative one. And I can't put that value. But we just put a placeholder in place and we've been around to it as well as it can with our

rational selves or what our souls, in case we can understand it. And that often is said that Christianity is not—you said it once and I heard it down from him. Matt said that Christianity is not irrational. It's kind of is rational. I can't really explain it to you. I can't explain it to you about all the things that's bad, but I can show you the reasonableness. Right? So you know the mystery. You can present the mystery to someone. You can talk about your experience. You can't explain it all because it is a mystery. John was the first to do this when he talked about what was from the beginning with what we heard, what we've seen with our eyes, what we looked at and touched with our hands. It's concerning the word of glass. The word becomes flesh and flesh and flesh.

And that was his defense for what he was doing. He wasn't explaining anything. He was telling you. He was moving you. But as he did that, he was actually echoing much older attempted experience in the Scripture. I'm going to take you through the story of Elijah. Elijah was a prophet in the Old Testament. He knew that he talked to God. He heard God. There's this heroic moment where he's standing on Mount Carmel over the Mediterranean Sea. And he challenges people who don't believe in God. And the fire comes from heaven. And the result of that was that they flew all these people that had been taking Israel away from God. And it should have been this moment of silence. And what happened was the queen's four out of dust going on him. And he had to run for his life.

Nothing he didn't come by. And on one day, he runs for 40 days. He flees from his country. Presumably under the cover of mountains through valleys, trying to stay hidden. He frees his country south to another country south to a wilderness, south into the desert, just trying to save his own life. And as he's running, when he runs through the wilderness, that's the same wilderness that David had run through, period, to his own life, years before. And when David was fleeing his life in that wilderness, he wrote the psalm, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? Psalm 15, 1, 2. Is he asking that, O Lord, explain to me what's happening? No. Where are you? Right? Elijah just thought he knew God, and they didn't work.

They had to run for his life. They did the same thing. And he thought he was very young. Runs it like, God, where are you? David wrote the same psalm in the same wilderness that Christ squirted from the cross. Psalm 15, 1, 2. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Where are you? Why am I alone? I want to know you. And as Elijah fled, it's interesting that he fled to the same desert, the same spot where Moses was said to have met God so intimately as though they were face-to-face, because he wants to have that experience. The experience in the north where he thought he was doing right and calling them hard, he hadn't done work. So he flees. He's exhausted. He's alone. His life, his work has no efficacy. He's lost it all, and he wants to go where God was and Moses met him.

So he runs to the desert, to the mountain where he goes, Moses met God. And he found Moses in a, there's a story for this, he's sitting in a cave, just staring out at the wilderness. He's exhausted. He's lost. He's alone. He's just a purpose. One of the ancient mystics of the church that I've declared earlier in that ancient 1900s called this the Long Dark Night of the Senses. Like, there's nothing, that's what I experienced in most seasons. There's nothing you're sentenced to help you with. There's nothing you're sentenced to help you with, you're just none, which leads to the darkness of the soul in which you can re-discover God, because you're stripped away, right?

So he finds him stripped away, sitting in the mouth of the cave. And we don't know how long he was there, but the passage tells us that as he sat there, God tells him to go outside the cave and he'll meet him. God recognizes his loneliness.

Elijah, who knew God, heard God speak to him, tell him to go outside the cave and meet him, because it wasn't good enough to communicate, to get letters. He needed to know them, right? So, he goes outside the cave to see where God is, and he's instructed him, God's a great powerful room, tear through the mountains, and break the pieces before the Lord, but the Lord is not in the wind. And after the wind, there was an earthquake, but the Lord is not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake, there's a fire, but the Lord is not in the fire. This is an old Christian, a prophet, who's grown up understanding that the great flood destroyed the world, right? The fire and green sun came down on God's enemies. He just, he fired him out for heaven.

God spoke to Job in his moment of loneliness out of the tornado, right? All these, these manifestations of all these great and mighty destructive natural events is what Elijah knew and sounded on. God wasn't going, right? It's easy to think that happened in 10 minutes, because it takes one minute to read it. Corrections don't count on them in 10 minutes, right? Earth breaks wildfires. You can imagine that Elijah's got their days, a day, a week, a month. We don't know. Just watching nations fall apart, just entropy. Nothing left. God was nowhere. The world was just falling apart. That's what it was. And then the numbness that came after him, we're told, there was nothing, all that was gone. The sound of the full silence is where he formed God. The human, I think I should watch my wife.

The human voice and voice is the same. It's the same word. It's the voice of the same silence. And you've probably been there in your life, and you're stripped away. There's nothing left. It's all gone wrong. And you're just sitting in the numbness. And in the silence, when there's no more artifice, there's no more nothing of you left, that's when you can hear two things there where God is. And that's what Moses often seek, is to produce that moment, to get close to God again. And that's certainly what Elijah was doing here, to recreate that. So he's called like Moses, who got close to face. And in that moment of stillness, he saw God. We're told in the psalm, be still and know that I am God. The stillness there, the word is to stop striving.

It is to cease striving. It's to go limp. But it also is rendered to speak, which is what happens when you cease striving. And you just think into the unknown. And that's the image I'd like to carry with you. That's the mystic moment of you're stripped away and you think it to go to the mystery. So, but where's that statement of that, right? Some of you, the ones who raised your hand, have never taken it. You're thinking, oh, it's fine, but, you know, speaking into the ocean is just as nothing left and my mind's turned off and it's all emotion. Where's the theology in that, right? That's a fair question. I would like to give you this quote from Calistos of where he's at. An Orthodox priest in England, he's also a great lecturer at Oxford.

Faith is not the supposition that something might be true, but the assurance that someone is there. And I see the assurance that most of you is there was the other thing that kept me. It's not that easy track of which way I walked from, right? So, I can say for the sister agent, an excellent thinker, has a story he told, when he learned to understand the faith, was when he was in his disciples, but he was lost out on a walk with his father and sick father. And he heard the voice of his father as he was trying to understand, just a giant vampire. Now, if you're loving him, that meant his father was standing right here and to see his son. But his son had no idea. He was lost. And he just had to know that it wasn't any sensory input.

It wasn't anything he knew about. In life, it was just faith that he trusted his father that allowed him to turn to safety. Faith isn't the supposition. But something that might be experienced, it's the assurance that someone is there. Barth talks about that, Karl Barth. I know there's this theology upon him, probably more of your theology than you know, the rest of the things he wrote. And Karl Barth talks about theology, rigorous theology, being speaking, leaning blindly to the unknown. And if you find a light switch and turn it on, then you understand it a little more. And you dig through the unknown and turn it on. And as you're doing that, building theology, as we all do that. Here's the thing, it seems that you'll notice that the laws never go around. You're never defining something small that you can get your hands around to understand.

As you see these inputs and outputs, what you're understanding is the limits and the ways in which you can understand that. The laws will always close in and you'll find your limits. And your systematic theology is a systematic description of your limitations. And the mystery is outside that. And what you're seeking to do is know the mystery more. Again, close to where it renders out much more eloquently as we see that it's not the task of Christianity to provide easy answers to other questions, but to make us progressively aware of the mystery. God is not so much the object of our mind as it's the cause of our mind. Thank you. I didn't say it, but I say it all. I repeat it all the time. We see that it's not the task of Christianity to provide easy answers to other questions, but to make us progressively aware of the mystery.

God is not so much the object of our knowledge, it's the cause of our love. This does feel foreign to us. We want peace to see you in our Christian walk. We want to achieve something. And we don't believe you just sit and know.

It's been a little present throughout the church. It's present in the practices. And so if you feel like it's foreign, we're speaking to a gentleman who's in faith. Obviously, it's a good place to start. The theological importance of the doctrine of the Trinity is that you cannot see God in your own image if you bear on mind if it's three persons in one person. And he's always greater than you. It's not something you can put in your own mind and reduce into a person, you know, that you can interact with in human terms, necessarily. But he's also eminently available to you. Which is, of course, the incarnation. That's the whole story of the incarnation. God, the saints, flesh, and dwelt among us. And he beholds his glory. The glory of God the Father in human terms, right?

This guy was this divine immortal at the same time. Like, mysterious. We're not meant to understand it. We are meant to get to know him. And that's the mystic practice. And he celebrates that incarnation in communion, right? As we have these physical elements, dead and grief, in which we feel and represent the presence of what has happened, where the divine came into the flesh, and we celebrate it and recognize the perfect equation in our lives over and over again. And when we're asked to, I think, Paul and Corinthians say that you try yourself and make sure you're worthy before you go to communion, if you've never thought to yourself, yeah, I've had a good week, I'm worthy. You're probably not thinking about it, right? And you should consider that and recognize that this is an immortal mystery.

And you only have any access to God because he chose to become incarnate as symbolized in the communion and bring himself to your presence and make himself the mystery available to you. And we tip ourselves that we understand them all the time. We don't even make sense of a self, right? I was out with my kids in Washington yesterday and the numbers that they did that I don't understand were, you know, large. And, but we, you know, we got communion tied up in a bow, right? That makes sense. It's been this divisive, one of the most divisive things in Christendom is how we celebrate communion. Let's also focus on how to do it and how it works instead of knowing the man behind it, knowing the God behind it. The pursuit of the mysterious, even incense, we have incense on the table, incense of smoke, the original, it says in the Old Testament,

we burn sacrifices through them by the pleasing the realm of the God. Nothing decides we're pagan. God doesn't have a known thing that's right. But we're happy to believe that God has you, because we have around him all the time.

And it's easy to lose track of his imagination in the serious system. That is not easy to do when you're cast into the middle of the ocean, which is why it's so important to find the moments and means to drift yourself away and sit in a presence. What I had the opportunity to do is, I was awake at 2.30 in the morning, for no reason, I went out and put the dogs out, because when I was 6.30, I took that as a cue that, you know, I'm a very good worker.

So, and then I sat still on my sketch in the middle of the house at 2.30 in the morning for a while, and experienced the grace of God. With no agenda, and I would encourage you all to do that. We're actually going too late. I could talk you through, actually.

We know it's a truthful thing to be in the hands of the Lord of God, but we need to be experienced it. We know that it's always been part of the church experience, but we forget things that have been developed for over hundreds and thousands of years that have come down to us, and we leave them aside in favor of the things we're busy with. John started this, what we're calling mystic understanding of Christ, expressing it to others. The mystic fathers in the 3rd century went out into the desert to re-experience what John described, what Elijah was going through. And I will take a moment to say, when you think about mysticism, don't confuse it with asceticism. As asceticism is the manner of self-mysticism, the pursuit of God, of the mystery. You can absolutely, of profusional self-practices, such as practicing, fasting, use stress support.

But I would say, if you ever find that you're pursuing the practices, instead of pursuing the mystery, they're all faced. And don't let them become your justice. Which, of course, some of our church fathers did, but they were greeted in honest pursuit of God, of the mystery. That was in Egypt, in the 4th century, in the 5th and 6th century, in Turkey, in 4th century, in Turkey. They really developed an understanding of the Holy Spirit, which you still benefit from today. You might talk about the monks of Augustine and Ambrose, in the 5th and 6th centuries, and the disciples into the 6th century, really developed this idea of framing the Scriptures, knowing the Scripture. And the Scripture, seeing the Scripture as a low-tile of spiritual insight, not just the list of definitions or the history of God revealed in any kind.

It's both. But it's also a location of the Scripture in Turkey. Ambrose, and Augustine, and their followers, developed this idea of a French Scripture. It grew up in Canada. In France, in France, in England, and Ecuador, and in the 11 countries, kind of built out into what we call the lecture, the Demented Age, divine reading, because they spoke like the lectured again. In the 15th century, John of the Cross, the wonderful leaders, in Spain, codified that and codified it along how to pray the Scriptures. And it's a long legacy of people across countries and places and languages has developed for us an understanding of how to teach the mystery through the Scriptures. And I could, it even goes on today, in Kentucky, in 1960, Thomas Wirtman was a very famous mystic. He was a liel to that, or was a liel to recently.

And even, what grows out of the quietness of prayer, you guys have probably heard of a phone number in Alphabet, which is the first place. My first thing I know is to live right there. And that grew out of, the same thing that happened in the 17th century, just before the Great Awakening, the Moravians had a prayer meeting, and the pastor offered them by, let's just stay for an hour after and pray about what was just, you know, staying still just before God. And that was in May, and that was in May, and it kept going through to August. And in August, they say the Spirit fell, they revolutionized world missions and were seeking off the Great Awakening, because they were still before God. What happened in Asbury, whatever was going on, it started with students sitting still before God.

Christ was constantly, he would get away and pray. And he would get away to know God, right? The night before he chose all these disciples, he stayed up all night on prayer. And I submit to you, he wasn't in concentrated, crazy times of anger, which he maximized, you know. He was being still with God, being so aware of God. He just naturally asked him to project it. All your current concerns just slipped away. And also, we could talk about this a lot longer, I could talk a lot longer. And I will say, what I'm doing right now, this isn't what prayer should be. And you don't need to jabber for 45 minutes to people, God, and call it a prayer. It's, you listen, right? It's kind of converses, converses. If you guys didn't get one of these when you came in because you were out,

they photocopped you some more, and you can get it in the bathroom as you read. I hope you also will get one of these, which describes the lecturing, you know, which is benign reading. And I want to walk you, instead of describing this for a while, I just want to walk you guys through it together this morning. So I'm going to start by just reading this to you, the description. And then we will do it together in some minutes. They'll do it all in some minutes. And so you'll be prepared to do it yourself this time of your life. So, the Lectio Divina is an ancient approach description that was widely practiced in the church. It involves very slow reading and listening to the Word, married to a form of contemplative prayer that, together, opens the reader to the presence of God.

It has four movements. First, the reader or the listener. It's a person. Thanks to a selective passage in the scriptural, the sense of humility and awe. Those things are the wisdom of God spoken personally instantly to the reader. The key to this movement is allowing the Word to be alive from this moment and this day. It's the Lectio, the reading and listening for this. Next, the reader begins to find all the implications of Scripture as it relates to the personal Word from God. This involves allowing the Scripture to enter after the reader's feelings and thoughts, and you'll be reading the Scripture again as you do this. You read it fourth time. Posts and confirmings. Time is taken to repeat the first word from God. Meditating on the implications for life as it's called meditation. Next, the reader moves on to a formal prayer.

And this is more dialogue than monologue. It begins loving, intimate conversation with the Father. The goal is to embrace the Word in the deepest places within the heart, allowing it to bring change to the peace of God. And this is called the Elaborate of Prayer. And finally, in the fourth century, the reader rests before God. Speak little of this as much. And communication between the reader and the Father. Word in this is to surrender to the message of the Word in our God and Jesus is known as contemplative. So, I have said two things about this in the district. One is, when you do this, because we're going to do it this week. This week is about Tuesday, but we're not going to go in line together. We're going to take time alone to do this.

A couple times. I'd say three times this week. That's your next time. First of all, find a dedicated space. One license, you get it, would actually go into the closet, just shut the doors. You can do it in the bathroom. You don't remember, as long as you're alone and clean when you have things during two assignments. I would also choose a place. You choose a place and make it safer to have fun. You're safer than you set apart for that. Right? For this purpose. Second is, through the passage. Don't just pick your favorite passage, your little Bible, Scriptures that you memorize. Pick that passage and just move through it in small chunks, day by day. It could be Sermon on Mount Master 5-7. It could be, you know, John's, Christ's final speech to his disciples in John 15 and 17.

It could be Philippians, it's a great book, right? Take a large description, a little description at a time, so that it's pre-decided and you're not pushing your own attention to God. And you're listening. So you find a place, you find a passage, and you go through these steps. And now, when you're on your own, you will be reading out loud so that your ears hear your mouth. Today, I'm going to read for us. And instead of you all going off into a closet somewhere, we'll just sit at the house and do it together, okay? So we're going to do this now. If you could assume an attitude that separates you from those around you. As I read this the first time, I'm going to read Psalm 1, 1-2-3. As I read to this the first time, what word or phrase guides out to you is God's word to you?

Blessed is the man who does not walk in the council of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the feet of the swanful. But he is in the light of the law of the Lord, and in this law he meditates day and night. He will be like a tree planted by the raiders of water that brings forth its fruit in his season. The least awful will not work in it, and whatever he does will prosper. And one more time.

As I read this again, ask yourself what feelings of lies you're giving me to read, such as what implications does it hold to their life. Blessed is the man who does not walk in the council of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the feet of the swanful. But he will be like a tree planted by the raiders of water that brings forth his fruit in his season. And leave also will and further, and once whatever he does will prosper.

Let it take you back. As I read this a third time, put it in your mind to God, the parts of the swan that you left. What does that mean to you relative to this text? Listen to me.

Blessed is the man who does not walk in the council of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the feet of the swanful. The thing you do like is in the law of the world, and in his law he meditates day and night. He will be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that brings forth his fruit in his season. And leave also will not work in it, whatever he does will prosper.

Listen to God. And in this last moment, I read it. Last in the moment, he still has a test. The word became flesh into a commandment, and the word was rendered in test for us.

And he experienced his peace. Blessed is the man who does not fall from the council of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the feet of the swanful. And he will be white as in the water of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night. He will be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, and brings forth his fruit in his season. His belief also will not live in whatever he does will prosper. The word of the Lord. So this lecture is an ancient preach description that reminds me. This lecture is a place of spiritual heart that died, a gift to us.

from where we can experience him, and bring forth the truth. And sometimes he leaves behind me the Christian heart. The Christian mission is a myth and lives in the reality, but our reality is not physical. It's because God is faith, eminent, high-powerful God, and transcendent. And he had available to us through the ministry.

And the goal of Bible study is not just learning the Bible, but developing the system. It's not developing the system. It's God. It's educating the believer in growth and happiness. And that education isn't just academic learning. It's knowledge. It's experiential knowledge of God, and you've got to be with him and have to experience it to have that education. Let me give you a couple of questions. I do ask you to do this this week, at least in time, to get you there as you do it. When you meditate on Christ, you're not emptying your mind. It's a lot of advice I've learned in meditation, which is all about recently I've known and mindfulness, and there's probably some things in the world of it. But what you're doing is focusing on Christ. Okay? Everybody should fall away,

definitely yourself, but him. As you move in the gulf, you absolutely know there's a moment in the swing where you're not concentrated, you're not focused, and you're not trying to make it happen, but you have nothing in mind that's a problem, and you swing to it. It's that focus. There's nothing left out in your mind that's essential. Also, as you meditate, you'll probably find yourself thinking about how it is worth, and yesterday's menu, and the TV show you saw. That's normal. You're not unrighteous at that point. But that's just the ladies in yourself that haven't fallen away yet. When it happens, let it go, and refocus on Christ. As you pursue God, you may have lots of thoughts, which the people may not be true, guys. Try the fruit. Try them against Scripture. Don't necessarily try them against the theology

we've learned in some new schools. Re-take the fruit, right? If God's speaking to you, listen. But do make sure to try the fruit. And the greatest danger that I've wanted to be against is the danger of dissing journalists. And seriously, this is a great book till we have faces. The last part of this book is how can we meet God face to face until we've stripped away everything else in our faces?

The unmitigated goal of us demanding that God reveal himself to us but we keep ourselves prisoned and protected. Don't do it. Elijah was able to hear the same sound of God's voice and the same sound of his finest because he was stripped away and known of all his pretence and all his self-importance, right? And that's where we need to be. The same way we compare ourselves to communion, which we will do shortly. You're naked before God. You're examining yourself and recognizing your place in devastation. Right? It's not about you and being on the way of communion and when you sit before God and meditation. It's about healing. In the midst of what practices help us strip away by all of us there's no difference so we can do it for you. So I'm going to pray

and I'm going to be left and come up with the latest in the community. Father God, I pray that in this week as you go out I'm going to seek your face, seek to know you more. I'm going to set and I'm part of your true experience. I'm going to pray that everyone here and I want to have that moment. And I'm going to leave the morning there in this week. Through this evening I would just pray with respect to the Lord so that we can redirect our images through a new focus on your life. Thank you for bringing these people together in this building that can sign in the city. And I pray to you in these lives and for us I pray that we would take the time away and to know you so that we can pray for the news that I'm standing for. Thank you.
