Spiritual Stations: Pilgrim
2023-03-20
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uZf99Kjvt4g

Thank you. Thank you. I'm honored to continue on a series called Spiritual Stations. This is a unique series for us. It's interesting for me to say that it's a unique series for us because it's only been a church for six months, so I guess it's kind of a normal series for us. But it's different, a little bit out of the box. It feels a little bit less like, I mean, kind of exegetical teaching to these Christians. To me, it feels more like kind of a workshop, almost like a love language workshop. Are you guys familiar with love languages? Who in here is familiar with love languages? A good majority. This is pretty much Christian mainstream, I guess. Have you noticed with love languages that usually your spouse gives love the opposite way that you receive love and you naturally give love the opposite way?

Anybody else have that problem in here? So that seems to be natural. I think the Lord is, I think that we started some heights in the middle of the church. This is going to be fun this morning. I don't know. I think the same is similar with the spiritual stations works out. The church that we've gathered together under this roof is filled with unique people who connect with God differently. And it's been really cool to see how we've all learned to understand and appreciate one another. I've had lots of really great conversations with many of you. You're discovering more about who you are, the ways in which you connect with God. And I hope that God encourages you, that that reminds you, that this is how God made you. It's a good thing. That you're learning to appreciate your brothers and sisters in Christ who do things a little

bit differently than you. And some of you, the most bravest in the room, are actually stepping outside of your comfort zone and trying some things that are different for you. And this whole thing comes with a survey. So if you're new and you haven't been with us for some of the other messages, love to have you take that. It's available on the line. So you can find out kind of what your spiritual station is, how you connect with God, and when we're going to introduce ourselves a little bit more. Last week, Corey steered on The Servant. And we had a full week full of service opportunities. Some of you guys participated in that. That was great. Mike and Andy, our missions coordinators, put that together. And Mike asked me to share this. Thank you, Carl, with all of you from the Kids Club next door.

How beautiful is this? We made an Easter basket for all of the kids at the Kids Club. Some of you went over there on the red for the kids at the Kids Club. They're our neighbors, and we want them to know Jesus. We want them to know the hope of healing that we have in Him. I walked out. They've been running lots around their building in the afternoon. I think they'd say use like a 5K, which is cool. And I walked out, and one girl was like, what's this smell like in there? I was like, I don't know. It smells normal. And she was like, I've never been in church before. And then I was like, you know, it smells normal. We don't have any weird, I mean, there was one week we had incense.

But other than that, it's normal. And here, you're fine. You're comfortable. And so I'm so excited about that long-term partnership. And Mike wanted me to remind you that this is something that we want to cultivate long-term. And so if you want to read to kids or mentor kids, there are a number of opportunities for us to become good, useful neighbors to them. And so I want to share that with you and put that opportunity in front of you. Reach out to me or Mike or any of you if you're interested in those neighborhoods for the Lord. But for the past couple of weeks in this series, we've covered the four original spiritual spaces that came with the author that put these things together. And these four are really clearly biblical, right? We've got eight, we're using people up there.

We've got head, heart, servant, and mystic. And this comes from this teaching of Jesus when he says that the greatest commandment is to love the Lord your God with all of your heart. Mystic would be soul. Head would be mind. And servant would be strength. These four clear biblical categories. And now we turn this into the two that have been added later. And they're slightly different. I wouldn't say that they're not biblical, but I would say that they're more sociological. These are patterns of human behavior that we've been able to observe from literally the early Church and Acts on through now. And you'll see that they're on the same basis, right? Crusaders and pilgrims are both very similar and very, different. And these are the two stations that we're going to cover. And yes, it's weird language.

If you're new to church or if you're, I like, I grew up in church and these words are weird. It's just weird, right? Hopefully, they won't be weird at you in the least two weeks. So, the pilgrim and the crusader, like I said, they have lots of similarities and lots of distances. I would say that the similarities are that both groups tend to be very action-oriented. They connect with God through doing what he said and doing what he is saying. I would say this, that the crusader feels this way, that God has spoken and I connect with him by doing something about it. He's already spoken. He's told us what his will is for his people and I've got to do something about it. And you'll see the crusaders on the upper section of the quadrant are really thinking.

It's really speculative, right? Like in the head. And so, the crusader says, God has spoken and I have to do something about it. And the pilgrim is on the bottom, the more effective, spiritual, emotional side of things. And the pilgrim says, God is speaking and he has to do something about it. The best way that I could think to illustrate this is when I was in high school, don't laugh at me. I was in the jazz band. I said, don't laugh at me. Come on. I knew I was coming. I was in the jazz band, right? And most of the songs we played in the jazz band had been written and arranged years and years and years ago. They were on paper. The people that play their songs, they play the song the same way.

Every time a new jazz band got that arranging, that music, they sat down and they played the song the same way. It was written. They played it with passion and excitement. They played it as it was written. But every now and then, in jazz music, there will be a break for improvisation, right? And a soloist would step up and he or she had the opportunity to break out into a solo. And in the solo, they would kind of mirror the melody of the rest of the song, but they would go out on their own and create something new and fast and exciting. And so I'll say this, the crusader is the musician that sticks to the music. I'm spoken to his word and we must do something about it. But the sobering, the sobering is more like the improv artist.

And since that is up to something new now, then we should do something about it. But you'll notice that when you hear an improv soloist, they do tie in the old piece of the melody. They're not creating something totally different that has nothing to do with the song that's been played. Does that make sense? They're doing both old and new things to create something beautiful. If I had to summarize the pilgrim with one phrase, I would say this. The pilgrim is willing to do whatever works. They're creative. They're pragmatic. They're unafraid to use every tool at their disposal. They will use methods that have worked for thousands of years and they will create new methods that seem to be working now in the moment. And as you might imagine, pilgrims often get to sit in a controversial seat.

Because everyone loves things and new things, right? Everyone loves things and new things. If you don't believe me, just bring up NSPs to a room full of boomers. Just try and explain what NSPs do. Some of you are like, what's an NSP? I can't tell you. You will lose your mind. Your brain will explode. You will hate society forever. Okay? New things. They think of bring about emotions. Like we get angry. We get frustrated. We're like, no, you can't do that. And then you say, why? And let's use me to answer. We've never done it before. We have to do it the way it's always been done. And the pilgrim is willing to create new things and fresh expressions. But this often puts them in a place of conflict. The pilgrim often jumps from church to church to church and says, the church doesn't like to let us inside new things.

I think this national tendency to not like the newness has caused the American church to intentionally or unintentionally silence the voice of the pilgrim. We've historically liked senior activity when it comes to our message because we like to keep things the way that they work. We like to be comfortable. We like to sit in the same seat every week. We like to listen to the same psalms every few weeks. We like to do things the way that they've always been done. But let me tell you this, church. God has given us the voice of pilgrims for a reason. We should learn to listen to them and give their voice more weight in our lives and give them more leadership positions in our church. It's because the mission of God is far too important to not adopt our methods.

The mission of God is far too important for us to keep our methods ascending. Before I hop up on my soapbox and complain about the American church for the rest of the morning, which I won't do, I'd like for you to turn your Bibles to Acts chapter 15. We're just listening to Acts chapter 15 because the silencing of the pilgrim voice, the conflict between the pilgrim and the rest of the church, isn't a new thing. It's existed since the very beginning of the church. So in a minute, we're going to get into Acts 15 and look at some conflicts between some early church pilgrims and the rest of the church that didn't want things to change. But before we get there, I want to clearly define some terms. So when I say the pilgrim does whatever works, what is it that they're doing?

What is the goal? What are we trying to accomplish? And for that, I go to the beginning of Acts chapter 1 verse 8. Jesus has been crucified, buried, risen again. He's showing Himself to all His disciples in different opportunities, and He's about to be ascended into heaven. And He gives them this one last card. And then it's chapter 1 verse 8. Essentially, this is my summary of it. He says, wait on the Holy Spirit. I'm going to send you my Spirit. When the Spirit comes, you're going to be my witnesses. Making disciples, baptizing them, and teaching them to follow my commandments in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the earth. This is what the pilgrim is all about. This is what all Christians should be all about. Making disciples in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the earth.

The goal of ever-good pilgrim is that I want to see people all over the world come to know and follow Jesus. Most of us can get on board with that mission, right? It's the message that tend to cause a pulse break. Because the pilgrim's message quickly shifts. What the pilgrim's in the church realize is that what works to reach a Jew in Jerusalem might not work to reach a unique in Ethiopia. And it might not work to reach a wealthy, fastened, as I'm going to, outside the town of Soapai. And it might not work to reach God philosophers in Athens. And so you see the early church pilgrims begin to adapt their message so that their mission would continue to be effective no matter of the time. That's what we heard Pastor Mike read up here this morning.

He said, I do everything right to people. To connect with people. To build a bridge with people. So that I can share the message of Jesus with them. I will experiment with any method under the sun because the message that God has given us through Jesus is so important that we can do everything we can to reach people towards us in Jerusalem. So the early church pilgrims, they started experimenting. They started doing all kinds of different things. And this is one of the keys to the healthy expression of the pilgrim is that their message are regularly changing, but their message never changes. Paul says in Romans 1, verse 16, that the gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who agrees. The message is the power. And so the message can adapt so they can change and we can get creative about how we connect with people

so that we can share with them the message that has the power. You started with it? Cool. And so, as you can imagine, it didn't take long for these early church pilgrims to start innovating and for the Jews in Jerusalem to say, We can't change our message. We have to do things the way that we've always done things. My parents are doing it and their parents are doing it and their parents are doing it. And so we have to do it this way. And that's where we pick up this story in Acts chapter 16. See, Paul and Barnabas, there were doing some creative things to reach some Gentiles. They had just finished their first missionary journey. And God was doing some incredible things. And the rest of the church was unsure about whether they approved of the things that were received.

So, Acts chapter 16, verse 1 says, While Paul and Barnabas were at the end of the spirit, the name of Judea arrived and began to teach the believers, Unless you are circumcised as required by the law of Moses, you cannot be saved. Paul and Barnabas disagreed with them, arguing vehemently. Finally, the church decided to send Paul and Barnabas to Jerusalem, accompanied by some local believers to talk to the apostles and the elders about this question. Receive attention there? Paul and Barnabas were doing some creative things. There's actually, here's the thing about a message or method. As you see this happening here, sometimes we are trying to mess it with the message. We dilute those two things. And so, the Jews are like, No, the Gentiles, they have to be circumcised in order to get saved.

And Paul's like, No, that's not how this whole thing works. And so, they're going to have a dialogue, a public discussion in the church. And then in verse 4, it says, When they arrived in Jerusalem, Barnabas and Paul were welcomed by the whole church, including the apostles and the elders. So, the leadership of the church is coming to hear this disagreement. And they reported everything that God had done through them. But then, some of the believers who belonged to the sect of the church and stood up and insisted that the Gentile converts must be circumcised and they must be required to follow the law of Moses.

You see the conflict? You see the tension? This is the age-old conflict that arises to the pilgrims of every generation. You can't change the way that we've always done the time. We see the same conflict today. Many people tend to reject creativity and innovation. We get stuck in the methodology. And we think the way that God reached us is the same way that he has to reach people in the church. We now have to re-blow the lines between the message that we're used to reach us and the message that has a color.

That's where I can illustrate this is those of you that grew up in the church. You ever seen pictures of missionaries in third-world countries where behind them is a big brick building with a white steeple? You've got a white man in the street and pine in the middle of a third-world village. We're bringing the message and the message. And the Colburn says, no, what it takes to reach an African child is not what it takes to reach an American child. We've got to be commuted with our methods in order to get the message to the people that God wants to save. So we don't bring these lines. The message that works to reach boomers in a rural area won't necessarily work to reach gymnasts and millennials and plain suburban neighborhoods where Genesians and urban cities especially have to stop suppressing the voice of the pilgrim.

We're just to let them help us figure out the best, most creative ways that work to reach people who are far from going. Pilgrims do whatever works. Whatever works to reach people who are suffering God, we should celebrate that. One of my favorite pastors, Fred Grissel, you guys have, if you have the New Version Bible app on your phone, and you guys quoted Grissel to think, and his church is all about the creative new methods to reach people who are far from God. One of their core values is this. We will do anything sort of same to reach people who are far from God. Pilgrims in the room are getting jazzed about that statement. If you test it out of the pilgrim, you're playing. If you didn't eat it, you might be a little bit concerned with anything sort of same.

It sounds like you could blow some lines. It sounds like we could get pretty close to outside of orthodoxy as well. The message is so important that we would do anything. And that's what Paul said in the passage that Mike read. I did everything it took to connect with the people that God was calling us to connect with so that I could give them the message that Jesus Christ came and he lived the perfect life. He died in their trust for their sin. And they could have salvation as they trusted in him, as they placed their faith in him. With an easy and sort of sin to reach people who are far from God, the first reach of the oculus came out. My new seed was covered with Greg Rossell's church because he had launched the first meta church in the meta group.

So it was like church meta. I'm a pilgrim. And I was like, whoa, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. Isn't this church in the metaverse? The church literally has called out once and he's gathered a group of people. People can't gather in the metaverse. Except, yeah, they can't. And they do. And they will, whether or not the church is there or not. And so Craig says, if the people are going to be there, I'm going to go there. This is the voice of the pilgrim and the church. We're going to do whatever it takes, anything sort of sin, to reach people who are far from God. Why are you guys not as excited about this? Because some of you are pilgrims, and I get it.

There's a prince in here, right? There's that he. So, pilgrims will do whatever it takes to reach people who are far from God. How does this work pragmatically? How does this work? How does this work done? Well, I think there's three things in seeing the text here. Let's read verse 6. It says, for the apostles and the elders, they met together to resolve the issue. There's a piece in here between the pilgrims and the non- pilgrims. That's a meeting after a long, disgusting church. You ever been to a church board meeting? A church membership meeting? We're good at these. Long discussions. Peter stood up and addressed them. He said, brothers, you all know that God chose you from among you sometime ago to preach to the Gentiles, so that they could hear the good news and believe.

God knows people's hearts, and he confirmed that he accepts Gentiles by giving them what? The Holy Spirit. Just as he gave to us, you may know the station between us and them, for he cleans their hearts and faith. So why are you now challenging God by burdening the Gentile believers with the yoke that neither we nor our ancestors were able to blow? Hear that, children, language in the name? It's like, Old Testament law didn't even work for us. We grew up with it. We were taught in a very young age, we obeyed all of these commandments on our entire life, and yet Jesus came to show us that we couldn't follow the Old Testament covenant. He had to follow it on our behalf. It doesn't work. And so why are we going to make the Gentiles do the thing that didn't even work for us?

We believe that we are all saved the same way by the undeserved grace of Jesus Christ. So the first thing that Tobin does is to look for a move of the Holy Spirit. Peter says, look, Gentiles don't have to do the things that you're telling them they don't have to do, and how do I know it? Because God sent the Holy Spirit to them. So if God is sending the Holy Spirit to them, that's his stamp of approval on what is happening.

So Pilgrim looks for the Holy Spirit in each culture, in each expression of the church. The referee that I think I'll say is actually Rick Warman, pastor of, Warman pastor of the Father of the Church, he's an illustration of thrifties. He's from California, so I guess he's different. I'm not a thriftie, but essentially what he says is if you're a good thriftie, where you can have all of the right equipment, all of the right techniques, all of the right ideas about what it looks like to ride a good wave. But apart from a wave, you're not a thriftie. So if you're a surfer, you have to go where the waves are. And this is what pilgrims do. They look for where God is moving, and they go and partner with God in what he's already doing.

We're going to be a people that look for a move of the Holy Spirit in the generation, and we've got to be willing to modify our message in order to get the message to the people that God wants us to reach. The first thing they do is they look for the Holy Spirit. The second is they listen to the testimony of their brothers and sisters. Peter says the Spirit came, and so we can't argue with what God is doing. And then in verse 12, it said, Good pilgrims, they love the stories of success in the church. They love to feel about what God is doing. You know what flips me on the meta-church thing? When I heard about literally disabled people who can't go out into regular society, the metaverse has brought them society that they can't access on the line because of their physical limitations.

They crave their self. They heard story after story of people who were needing Jesus in their living rooms in the metaverse because he was the only expression of civilization and society that they could have. I heard stories of people being changed, and I'm like, I'm kidding. Maybe this isn't as bad as I thought it might be, right? So pilgrims, they listen to the Holy Spirit. They listen to the testimony of believers. And then this is really important because my head people are getting a little anxious right now. I get it. Not only do they look for the Holy Spirit. Not only do they listen to stories of brothers and sisters, but they're accountable to God's word. We don't stimulate things that are outside of the scope. It's fixed through. Like Craig said, anything short is sin.

We don't pass that. We don't disobey God's word in order to reach people. James stands up. So Peter stands up from the Spirit's moving. And then Paul and Barnabas stand up and said, here's the stories of people's lives, actual people, real people's lives being changed. And then James stands up and says, brothers, listen to me. Peter has told you about the time God's first visit of the Gentiles to take from them a people for himself. And this conversion of the Gentiles is exactly what the topic predicted. James said, it's been here all along. This has always been God's plan to save the Gentiles through the Messiah, through Jesus Christ. Of course, Isaiah 45 says, So good children, do whatever works by listening to the Holy Spirit, looking at the testimony of brothers and sisters and being accountable to the Scriptures.

Anything short is sinning to reach people. So God did tellers are created with their message while honoring God's eternal message. They look for the means of the Holy Spirit. They listen to the stories of others, and they're accountable to God's word. They're action-oriented, but they're only interested in doing what to be working. So we see this conflict being resolved in early church. We'll get to the final resolution here in a minute, but we spend a lot of time praising pilgrims, celebrating their voices in our church. But let's talk about a few shadow sides, a few things that happen if we become unhealthy and only focus on results. I say this, the first shadow sides of pilgrims is that we innovate at first, and then we become stuck in our ways. We're willing to be treated at first,

sometimes when we're young and not jaded, and we're like, oh, yeah, let's try the new thing. Let's see the new thing. Let's do it all. Let's try it all. And then it starts to work, and we get excited, and culture moves on, but we stay connected. You're going to feel like the church is like 30 years behind media and innovation. I think it's probably because we suppressed the voice of the pilgrim in the church, but I will say that I feel like things like the church and the Jewish revolution, we're starting to turn this up, which is cool, but we innovate at first, and then we become stuck. The best way I can illustrate this is, any of you guys ever seen the church as a bus ministry? Bus ministry was an incredible innovation. It was creative, right?

The churches were like, we're going to buy these old buses, and we're going to go into communities of people that aren't going to church, and we're just going to offer to pick up their kids. And literally, I was a part of it. I have two friends to this day that love Jesus and serve the church that was saved because of the bus ministry. Because their parents literally were like, you guys are driving us nuts. Just get in this bus with these strangers. We don't care. Hopefully they bring you back. If they don't, we'll be fine. And so it was an incredible, innovative ministry that God used to save people all over the country. There's still some churches that were doing that today. How many of your parents would just bring your kids onto a bus

with strangers in street and tides so we're going to teach them about when he's being sacrificed? Take them. Take the kids. Take the kids, right? So I think that's an example. That's a well-hanging fruit example. So, you know, we're innovative at first, but then we get stuck in the things worked in the past. Second, we get so focused on the message and results that we lose sight of the message. We get so intoxicated by seeing people's lives changed that we forget the message that industry changed their lives to begin with. We get sad. Like, I'm just not using me on things in people's lives. And we start to blur the lines and water down the message. I saw recently a church leader that I've followed in the past. He's incredibly innovative. He did strip club church, porn church.

He did all of his stuff to reach people who are in bondage of sexual addiction. And I stumbled across his Instagram, and now he's doing a ministry that literally does not have anything to do with the gospel at all. It's possible to get so wrapped up in kind of changing lives and get so far away from the message that's changing the lives that we just focus on life transformation and we got to root the message of Jesus. And remember what Paul said, the gospel is the power. We don't want lives to be truly changed. It has to be tied back to the cross and the entity. Because anything else is a seminal stake in our own life. Here's how I say. We get help and focused on the medical growth while ignoring other forms of spiritual growth.

That's where church helping comes in. Because we get into a church where God's doing stuff and people are getting saved, and then all of a sudden we don't see as many people getting saved, and we're out of here. I'm going to go with that. That is true. Because they're doing something really cool, and God's moving in that sense. But sometimes God's spiritual growth isn't always numerical with it. And so let's be eyes wide open to see God at work. And I mean, let's point it somewhere a long time. If you're in here in your program, I know your intensity is to find the next cool, innovative, awesome thing. Just stay here and help us be cool and innovative. That's awesome. Something good? God's saying, I'll say, and this is the hardest one, this is the one that's, I think, rooted in the most sinning spirit,

is airways. Pilgrims end up having no concerns of how their actions impact the overall unity of life. We're going to do whatever it takes to reach people who are far from God, and if you get in my way, go ahead. Right? And so not only would I say that healthy pilgrims do what works, but I'll finish the statement this way. Healthy pilgrims, they do what works with humility for the sake of unity. We see this in the text, in the text of this team, and we still have to read it all. So James is still talking. He quotes Scripture. He says, this is always God's plan. God is always going to save the Gentiles through the Jewish Messiah. And he says, so my judgment is that we should not make it difficult for Gentiles who are turning to God.

So you need a church warning. The next couple of verses are weird. Instead, we should write to them and tell them to extend from eating food offered to idols, from sexual immorality, and from eating meat as singled animals, and from consuming blood. So the laws of Moses have been preached from the Jewish Son of God in every city, on every set of us, from any generation. There's a lot going on here in this passage that we don't have time to unpack. But I will say this. I think the overarching summary for our time this morning is that the pilgrims are willing to complement this with the Jews from Jerusalem. The Jews from Jerusalem are ultimately saying, look, we did it. God seems to be at work. The Holy Spirit's moving. We've got testimonies of people being saved.

We're glad that the saving Gentiles of Christ in the Old Testament law. But can you do us a favor and not be too weird? You guys are, like, drinking blended, and you're buying your meat of discount prices that were offered to these pagan gods. Like, can you guys just do us a favor and not be so weird? That's just fair, right? So the pilgrims are like, hmm, yes, we can try not to be too weird. We can be innovative and creative without trying to be too weird. See, in other passages, Paul, who's in the room here, makes it pretty clear, that's fine to eat meat sacrificed on eggs. He's like, don't worry about it. But, if it bothers somebody else, don't do it. Because unity matters more than creativity. Humility matters more than creativity. There's another passage where Paul has a key leader with him,

Timothy, whose dad is Greek. This is crazy. And Timothy, as an adult, gets circumcised. Why? Because he knows it's going to allow him to have a better relationship with the Jews that he's working with. It says, Talk about humility. Adult men in the room. Humility, right? Humility. To the sake of unity, because every good pilgrim knows how important unity is when it comes to spiritual results. If the pilgrim is all about spiritual results, you should know that spiritual results will not come long-term without the unity of the church. Jesus prayed this. In John chapter 17, he says, The world will know you're my disciples by the way you rise anyway. And so many of them get so smoothies and innovative that we forget about unity. Let's be humble as we innovate. If you're in here and you're not a pilgrim, I encourage you to loosen up a little faith. Let's remove the Holy Spirit. Listen to the testimony of your brothers and sisters.

It says, If you resist innovation and you fear change, you might hold pilgrims back from reaching people that God's calling them to reach. And pilgrims, be creative and innovative. Do anything short of time to reach people hard from God. But if you drive a wedge between your brothers and sisters and you need to see you will never see the long-term results that you're longing for. Do what works with humility or faith and unity. That's the mantra of healthy pilgrims. And if you're not a pilgrim in the room, let's loosen up a little bit and encourage the voices of the pilgrim and see what God might do. And lastly, if you're in here and you're not a Christian and this whole thing is really weird to you, I get it. I would say this, that we are here today because Jesus is the person to help him.

He's having this conversation with the Pharisees and they'll ask you and they're like, okay, if you're in the style, I'm going to choose it by doing your miracle. And he says, okay, I'll do it. Because we're in good. See that temple? Can you guys do all of your worship with all of your sacrifices? I'm going to get through it. And in three days, I'll read that. Easy. How do you think that Jesus and Bruce don't fall out about the ministry? This temple, this thing, it was their connection to God. And Jesus goes, look at him, how are the old and you are doing a new thing? Jesus came and just to pray the old covenant. Covenant, see the sacrificial system existed because sin was consequences. And God was a holy God. But Jesus came to live a perfect

sinless life in your place for your sins so that you might have been retented to the Father through Jesus. He fulfilled the old covenant and created a new covenant by dying on the cross to your sins and raising from the dead three days later. He destroyed the temple and rose it up again. The curtain was ripped from top to bottom so that we could have direct access to the Father through Jesus. Jesus came to suffer the old thing in order to introduce a new thing. Jesus is the old ultimate pilgrim. He's the ultimate jealous empire of artists army and including the old covenant while creating something brand new. Jesus is ultimately saying, after my death and resurrection there will be no more needs for sacrificing in the temple. I am the ultimate sacrifice for sin

once and for all. Jesus personally did what works for humility to the sake of unity. How will we respond to this truth? So, because we're pilgrims this morning and we're all in the voice of the pilgrim, we're going to say something new. Is this going to be okay? He thinks? We're not going to sing, I promise. I'm going to pray and then I'm going to walk off stage and we're going to throw up on the screen a certain response question with some fun fun music. I just want you to spend a couple minutes thinking about the message, thinking about Acts 15, thinking about the teaching between the pilgrim wanting to create and innovate and the rest of us wanting to do nothing for them at all. And you think about your spot on them and what God

might be saying to you. And on the back of your bulletin there's like a note sheet so for you to respond to the question that is directed to you on that note sheet and then I will come back up and conclude with communion. So let me pray and do some time to think about reflecting on the message and then with communion. Father, we thank you so much for Jesus who did what it took to bridge the gap between our sin and God's righteousness that we might have direct access to the Father through Jesus. Thank you for his humility and he's willing to go to the cross not because he knew or anything to deserve it because he wanted to come where he saved us. So may we follow his example and we honor the words of the pilgrim

in our churches. May we be creative and innovative in order to reach the people that Jesus followed to save. May we do so with unity together because we follow our humble things. Thank you so much Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
