Like No Other: Healing the Blind Man
2023-10-23
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9EAfs6u3EQ

Thank you.

Thank you. Mr. Eastern, that was a miscommunication on my part. Our youth leaders actually preaching at another church this morning, which is really exciting from the kingdom aspect of our nation as a church, but also as you're in the middle of high school, we've been having some meetings about getting more people volunteer to serve your body of believers and unbelievers alike, and we're probably going to split you up for that you can hang out with middle schoolers and high schoolers and come to your life, so we're on the lookout for that. Dear Matthew, I'm going to have a privilege of being on the classroom here. We're continuing a series through one of the narrative scenes of the Gospel of Jeremiah. The Gospel of Jeremiah is written so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the

Messiah, the Son of God, and through believing you might have abundant life now and eternal life in the future, and one of the scenes, one of the narratives that John uses to communicate an ultimate purpose is seven signs of Jesus, seven miracles, and seven I am statements, and we've been examining those throughout the last few weeks. We're going to continue to do that all the way up to the end of that. So if you have your Bibles, you want to follow along, we're going to be looking at another starting this morning in John 1, chapter 9, John 1, chapter 9, is where we will be. Let me pray, and then we will hop into the message this morning. Father, we are forever grateful that you stand to me with God, Christ, the United One, the

Christ, the Christ, the Christ, the Christ, the Christ, and the King, who would be the ultimate expression of humanity on our behalf, who would die against you did not deserve an animal place for our sins so that we might have abundant life now and eternal life in the future, and that abundant life comes through following today's example of humanity. Far too often, we claim the salvation of Jesus without walking in His footsteps. May this morning be yet another opportunity for us to look at the perception of Jesus and invite ourselves to follow in His footsteps for your glory and for our good and for the good of our neighbor, which is in Jesus' name, I pray. Amen. One of my favorite movies, based on a true story, Remember the Titans. Anybody? Anybody? Yeah, I know, Jason, your son, Jason was, uh, and Barry, sorry, I've only ever talked to

Jason about it, but it's good to listen to as a gym teacher, right? Crazy story, right? So, remember the Titans, absolute classics, obviously based on a true story, or that would be weird if you guys thought he was a gym teacher, but there are parts of the movies that are honestly confusing, devastating, and infuriating at times. Especially because it's based on a true story. And for me as a pastor, one of the most infuriating scenes in the entire movie is a conversation that Gary Bertier has with his mother on Sunday morning before she's about to go to church. See, the schools had been forced to desegregate by law, not because of people, actually, not because the white people in the town actually wanted it to happen, but it was happening by law, and there was this conflict.

These football players, since they had a relationship with one another, began to break the barriers of this cultural idea, this racism that has so infiltrated the community, and they started to build relationships with one another. And Gary decided that he was going to go to the basketball with his friend Julius one Sunday morning on the African American side of town. And his mother came in to insist that he would not go spend time with Julius because he was going to go to church with his mother. this woman who, Bible-believing Christian, wanted her son into some worship with him when he was probably doing more worship heading into the basketball course to build a relational bridge with somebody that his community had ostracized. And he said, Mom, all you've got to do is just get to know him.

And her response was, I don't want to get to know him again. You're coming into church with your mother. How could an entire group of so-called Christians become so blind and disconnected from the God of the Bible that they claim to worship? I know that we've all had moments where we've witnessed people we love being blinded by their own bad ideas, ideas that make sense to them, but on the outside looking and we can see it, and it's confusing and devastating and insuriating. And at the same time, as we are so quick to look at history, to look at the 1940s, 50s, 60s, to look at the Pharisees in the first century, to look at our brothers and sisters who we see blind spots in their lives, we are so easily distressed and deceived to not see our own blind spots.

At the same time, we are often in similar situations of blindness that our loved ones around us can see, but we are too blind to see ourselves. In our passages this morning, we are going to see a number of people and groups of people who are blinded by their own bad ideology. Jesus was stuck in them in a miraculous moment of both activity and teaching, because this miracle actually becomes a lived-out trouble. In the Bible, Jesus isn't just hearing this man to heal this man, these feelings men can use it to teach the blind people in our passage that they are spiritually blind. Jesus was stuck in and performed a miracle that would ultimately become a message to help expose the bad ideas that lead to spiritual blindness. My hope this morning is that we can be honest with ourselves about our own areas of spiritual blindness, the ways in which we miss the miraculous, supernatural, spiritual working of Jesus.

This is where we're blinded by bad ideas that either aren't true or overly incisive. So, it's no coincidence that John puts this miracle of Jesus getting the blind man right after Jesus' statement, I am the light of the world. Jesus has always been about exposing people and calling people out of the darkness and into the light. So, let's hop and we'll see what that idea is we might resonate with and how we might learn from this miracle that ultimately leads to a message from Jesus and from the blind man who was healed. So, John's chapter 9, verses 1-5, it says, So, this is coming out of the synagogue after he says, I am the light of the world and he argues with a bunch of Jewish believers and he's passing by and he saw a blind man from this.

And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sent this man or his parents that he was born blind? Jesus answered him, it was not that this man he sent or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. Jesus says, we must work the works of him who sent me while it is dead. Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.

So, Jesus, his disciples, they're leaving the synagogue and cast by a man who was born blind, a man literally who encompasses the idea of suffering. He has no way to provide for himself. He literally is begging at the synagogue from the religious wealthy people just to hopefully have enough food for the day. This man is suffering. And they walk by, and it's interesting that Jesus sees the man, and the disciples see a theological debate. Jesus sees this man who is suffering, and the disciples walk past him, and all they can think about is this theological discussion that they want to have about what's going on in this man's life. The disciples want to know what the rabbi believes is about a cultural high topic. This was a debated issue in the day. They wanted to know, why are people born with this suffering?

Why are people born with blindness and lameness and difficulty? Why are people born this way? It has to be because it's standing. This couldn't be God's idea of shalom of peace on earth. So, somebody had to stand in order to make this happen. And so, the two prominent ideas were either the individual sinning or the tenning sinning. And it would have been totally normal for these disciples to want to know what their rabbi had to believe. The same idea when the disciples come to Jesus, and they say, teach us how to pray. They've been praying their whole lives. They know how to pray. They want to know how their rabbi wants them to pray. And so, I'm sure each of the disciples, they have a preconceived idea about why this God is blubbering. But they want to know what their rabbi thinks of them.

Really, I think that the bad idea that leads the disciples to have some spiritual blindness is trying to be twofold. Number one, they're elevating the theology of those people. They're walking past a blind man who is suffering. And rather than stealing them or acknowledging his pain, they use him as a prop for a theological discussion. Notice that Jesus sees the blind man in his question. Please don't breeze past the truth. If you are in here and you are suffering, if you are in here and you are hurting, Jesus sees you.

He knows your pain, and it is not his plan, ultimately, for your life. His ultimate plan is your healing and relation, whether it comes on this side of heaven or in eternity. And I'm sorry that far too often we, as his people, are not able to see your suffering. We look past them to try to come up with a cohesive theological explanation for your suffering. Don't we still believe this idea today? We're so concerned with explaining the problem of being away and organizing our theology in a nice and neat way that helps us sleep at night. But doesn't allow us to see hurting people right in front of us?

There's a Christian who had that awful sight of having three of his sons die before the age of 21. And he writes a book called From the Brass of a Curse. This is what he says about how Christians ended up with him in the midst of his suffering. It says, Another came and sat beside me and he didn't talk. He did nice waiting questions. He just sat beside me for an hour or more and listened when I said something. And answered briefly, prayed simply, left. I was moved, I was comforted, and I hated to see you again. How do we, as Christians, respond to people that are suffering in front of us? Are we willing to meet them in their suffering and sit with it and not feel like the first task that we have as Christians is to explain to them why they're suffering?

To give them some systematic theological explanation for why they're suffering. This is Job's friends. This is Job's friends. They come to them and sit by him and they try and explain to them and help them understand why and what's going on. May we not be blinded by the theology in a way that makes us bad neighbors to those suffering that are having us. If you're more concerned with the theological response to suffering rather than the Christian suffering in front of you, it's possible that you become spiritually blind. Please become spiritually blind. Not only have they prioritized theology over people, but Jesus seems to say that your theology isn't even that good.

So, they come to him with two options. They say, Jesus, why is this man going blind? Did he sin or did his parents sin? And guess what Jesus does? What do you often do when we come to him with two options? You read it, right? It's not your two options. It's something totally different. How true is this of us today? How often do we come to God in all the theological ideas and premises with two options? It either has to be this or this. You know, register, no register, sin, not sin, sin, not sin, so on and so forth. And Jesus looks at their two options and says, You're missing it. You're missing it. I love how Eugene Peterson summarizes this passage in his own words. He says, Jesus, this is him paraphrasing Jesus' words.

You're asking the wrong question. You're looking for someone to blame. There is no such cause and effect here. Look instead for what God can do. So, the question in the midst of suffering should not be why is this happening, but what might God do in the midst of this suffering? So, if you're in here and you're suffering, you've never gotten any use of your why questions. You might never get the miracle on this side of heaven that you're craving for you. I want to encourage you this morning that I believe that God does want to work in the midst of your suffering and then use an eternal hope for your suffering. So, start asking God, what do you want to do in the midst of my suffering? And to those of us who are a bit more theologically oriented,

don't become so certain of your theology that it makes you blinded to those around you who are suffering. Don't suddenly put wine in a box that helps you sleep at night, but doesn't help those hurting around you. The reality is we often come to God with only two actions that we perceive, and far more often than that is neither one of the ones that we have. Rudy says, this is my ways, and not your ways, my thoughts are not yours. So, the disciples see a theological debate. Jesus sees a man suffering, and he decides to do something about it. Verse 6 and 7. Having said these things, he spit on the ground, and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with mud, and said to him, Go, wash in the pool, and it's how long it seems spent.

So, he went and walked, and came back to him. Again, we read Scripture from 2,000 years ago. We just breeze past some of the most miraculous, incredible things that are going on. Jesus sees a man in his suffering. He decides to heal them. The first sign in the Scripture is the man born blind in the field. The Old Testament is filled with all kinds of miraculous things. Water being parted, right? Like, a man living inside of a whale for a couple of days. Like, there's some miraculous things going on in the Old Testament. But this is something that no one has ever seen, and it's something that Isaiah prophesied would have happened. When Messiah comes, Jesus is very clearly yet again making a statement. I am the promised Messiah. I am the Christ. Isaiah says this in Isaiah 35.

When he, Messiah comes, he will open the eyes of the Lord. Unplug the ears of the dust. The lame will wake like a deer, and those who cannot speak will sing for joy. Incredible. And what's incredible to me is that we know that John's goal in the passage is not to talk to us about the miracle, but our own spiritual blindness. How do we know this? John wrote 41 verses about this impending account. Guess how many of them know about the miracle? Two, right? Two verses about this miracle, this thing that's never happened in all its history. The most incredible thing. The story should be about the miracle, but it's not. Why? Because everyone around the miracle is so spiritually blind that they can't see the thing that Jesus is trying to show them. Two verses about a man being healed from his blindness.

Three, three, many verses about everyone around them trying to explain it away and pivot into their own ideologies. The focal point of the story should have been right. Those healing of the suffering and instead it becomes a theological debate. Believes the healed man excommunicated from their spiritual community. That's a spoiler alert if you haven't read the passage. That word is there. So, the story starts with the disciples done an idea about their theology being more important than the person in front of them. Jesus performed a miracle and the rest of this passage is filled with more ideas for more people. Ultimately, that is going to lead to one message from Jesus. If he wants us to walk away with some of this passage. Verse 8. The neighbors are those who have seen him before as a beggar.

Is this not the man who used to sit and bed, some say? It is he, however, so it's not that he is like him. He kept saying, I am the man. So, everyone around is debating on whether this is the guy or not. And he's right in front of them saying, nope, it's me. I'm here. Definitely me. No, I don't know. No, I do. We're really hard on people in Scripture. It's like we look back to what we would never do. Scientifically, if the man was born blind, his eyes probably never would have, like, fully developed. And now, in order for him to see, his eyes would be totally different, right? And so, you know, it's possible if you're in there and you're a little bit skeptical about who this Jesus guy is, he's going to look totally different.

Like, this area of his face is going to look totally different. So, you know, like, hey, he looks kind of like him, but definitely not. And then he's like, no, it's me. It's me. So, they say, essentially, like, how did this happen? He said, the man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, do it by the one who was. So, I went and I was and I received my thoughts. He's using his testimony as a way to explain the good news of Jesus through his neighbors. He is, like, immediately unisoning on the sort of God's word of Jesus.

They said to him, where is this man in Jesus? He said, I don't know. I was blind. Like, I don't know. I don't know. He was here when I was blind and then I'm not blind and now he's not here. I don't know where he's at. I wouldn't even know what he looked like. So, verse 13, and he brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind. What's that bad idea the neighbors are struggling with? They're skeptical of God's miraculous work. And then they're overly submissive to their religious teachers. They've got a person that they've been in their neighborhood with their entire lives who was blind and is no longer blind, standing right in front of them saying, I was blind and I'm no longer blind. They're a little bit skeptical and instead of having a conversation with the one that Jesus touched and healed,

they take him to the religious leaders and say, they're like, we want to know what they have to say about this. They're going to tell us what's true and what's not true. And, again, this still happens in the church today. The American church is very often skeptical of the supernatural, of what God might be doing that isn't logical or left-brain thinking. We look to our religious leaders to explain away things that don't seem to fit with our systematic theology. Please, please, please, please, insistent to the supernatural power of God all around you. Open your eyes to see. Think for yourselves. Do not just take my words for it. Do not just take Corey or Kent or Nick's words for it. Don't just, whatever John Piper says or Matt Sandler says or John Montgomery or MacArthur or CNN or Fox News or whatever it is,

whoever's a group of people you go to to tell you what you should think about something, look to the Scriptures. Submit yourselves to the Holy Spirit's work in your life and work it out in a diverse community of believers. That's what I love about our church. Our church is still with people who think differently than some of others. Like, that doesn't happen very often. It's hard to pass for you guys if I may have passed it. But I wonder, we all come to the table with different perspectives, different ideas, but we're willing to fold them loosely for the sake of the gospel of Jesus. And sometimes we're going to get it wrong trying to get it right.

But men would rather than just put our blinders on and not be open to the testimony of a man who was blind and can now see because it doesn't fit in our systemically theological framework. They would not be spiritually blinded on skepticism or over-submissiveness to whatever preferred religious teachers was in us.

All right, so they take them to the Pharisees, whose doctor also has some bad ideas going on. Verse 15, he brought him to the Pharisees, the man who had formerly been blind. Okay, now, John is still good at writing. I wish I could write these things here. So, Jesus makes mud and sends his man on the walk to healing. And that's all well and good until we get to verse 14. John is holding on. What does he say? It was the what? The harvest. All right. This is what Jesus is not supposed to do based on nature of his sins on Sabbath day. He's definitely not supposed to make mud. Not good. Not cool. He's not allowed to do that. So, we didn't know that that was bad until verse 14, but now we know it's bad.

He comes to the Pharisees. It's Sabbath day. Jesus made mud to open his eyes. So, the Pharisees again asked the blind man, how have he ever received his sight? And he again said, beautiful thing about this passage. This man is going to use his story to proclaim the good news of Jesus four times. It's what John is doing. We didn't have a lot of time to cover it in verse 7. John tells us, there's his prayer words. Go on to the full fellow, which means sin. So, he went and lost and came to the sin. Jesus is the saint one who tells others into the saint one. This man receives sight and becomes a man who is going to go and tell others about their blindness. When Jesus heals us, we should go and be saints.

This man's going to share a story four times. This man's going to share a story to the Pharisees. He just put mud on my eyes and lost and I received. And some of the Pharisees says, this man is not from God. He made mud on the side. Right? He does not keep the service. But others said, how can a man who is a sinner do such things? And there was division among them. They said again to the blind man, what do you say about him? So, the Pharisees are so consumed by the misunderstanding of the heart behind the Sabbath commands. That when the God of the universe who gave them those Sabbath commands is standing right in front of them, they call him a sinner. So, the Pharisees, their relationship with God has become so intertwined with their culture and their tradition that they couldn't distinguish what was from God and what was their own cultural, ideological presences.

I'm asking Christianity. Does this happen today? Do we mix our subculture and our preferences with our theology and do so so much that we can't even realize when we're holding on to our preferences and what we want and what we think and how we've experienced God that we're totally unwilling to have a conversation with someone who has a different perspective, who's experienced God differently than we have? You know, some of us, we've intertwined our citizenship as Americans and our citizenship to the kingdom of God so much so that we can't tell the difference between what's biblical and what's American. I've done this. We do this. I used to listen to Rush Limbaugh 24-7 and I thought, for sure this was a press for the best eye, right? No! Let's not intertwine our politics of America with our politics of the kingdom of God.

Let's not look to people who dress differently than us in worship and sing different songs than we do, have a different preferred systematic theology or denomination than we do and speak poorly of them. We would have conversations with people who exclude the grace of God and learn from one another. We form our opinions in a vacuum and we refuse to listen to the stories and experiences of those that don't fit neatly in our back.

I mean, Lord God has been kneeled right in front of them and they miss it because they don't miss spiritual blindness. You know, we get some very bad ideas. Let me see what you think of one of my favorite TV shows. Ted Lysa, here we go. Ted Lysa, it says, stay true. Stay true. May we be willing to listen to diverse stories of how God is working in our lives, those of those around us, even if it doesn't fit at a theological framework. May we refuse to understand the heart of God and his people and not miss out on it because of our own stubbornness. May we be unwilling to become spiritually blinded by a stubborn theology to be seen in our cultural preferences. Notice that God with the least theological education is the closest to understanding who Jesus is.

The Pharisees have been studying these Scriptures in their entire lives. The king of the universe is standing right in front of them and they're trying to decide if he's a sinner or not. And there's one of them who wouldn't have been allowed in the religious education system. He's just picking up what he can get from those around them. They say, who do you say he is? And he says, he is a Christian. He's not there yet, but he's a Christian. So, the Pharisees bring his parents in. Apparently, this guy is probably young and ill, so they want some more student. Verse 18, the Jews did not believe that he had been blinded. So, they still didn't believe that things happened. Some of them are fighting about whether or not it should have happened because of the status,

and others of them are still like, I don't think this guy was ever blind. I think he doesn't have to pull a fast one on us. They didn't believe that he was blind and then he had received sight until they called the parents of the name who received his sight and asked him, is this your son who you say was born blind? Really? Like, judgmental, skeptical? How the name does he not see? So, they ask him three questions. Is this your son? Was he born blind? How does he see? In the case, they're only willing to answer two questions. We know this is our son and then he was born blind. But how he now sees, we do not know, nor do we know who opens his eyes. We should ask him, for he is of age.

He will speak for himself. This is where it gets said, verse 22, his parents said these things because they feared the Jews. For the Jews have already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be close to us, it would be cut out of the synagogue. Therefore, his parents said, he is of age, ask him. What's the bad idea that leads to spiritual blindness in the lives of the parents? It's feared and it comes first. See, the parents, if anyone, if anyone should have been willing to stand with this person who had been here wanting this, could have been his parents. They have firsthand emotional connection. They've seen the suffering of their child over the years. They know, and now they see the joy of the sight being restored. And the passage even seems to indicate that they're kind of clued into the fact that Jesus is Messiah.

They probably know the Isaiah 35 passage. The one Messiah comes, he's going to make the blind see. And so they're like, how are they catching on? But again, the synagogue system, the religious system of it, they have become so intertwined with social and cultural ideals that they were afraid of losing everything that passed. They were afraid of losing their community, of their friends, of their social status. They would lose everything if they said what they thought was true about Jesus. The heart of it about it was all these fears and comforts. They were unwilling to interact with the miraculous truth of Jesus that was right in front of them because they were afraid of losing their religious community. Unfortunately, this bad story still continues today.

We are unwilling to stand with hurting and suffering people because we're afraid of what a religious community might think of Jesus when they've intertwined their preferences and their cultural ideologies and their political affiliations. See, we know this is true. If you grew up in the church, you know this is true. You know that there are people who are suffering, who are hurting, who are spiritually blind, and making bad decisions. And what does your religious community want you to do? Stand from afar and speak peace and love. No, condemn, right? Like, this is what we do. We explain it away. This is why you're suffering. This is why you're struggling. You're a sinner. You're messing up. You shouldn't be doing these things. Take that in to the suffering of a spiritually blind, all of you. And be willing to take steps from your religious community in order to introduce them to Jesus, to squeeze them and speak them out.

Let's not get so blinded by a religious ideology that we're afraid of what our Christian community might say about them. This is Gary Bittier's mom, right? My son can't go to that side of town. Do you know what they'll think about me? Do you know what they'll say about me? Do you know what that will mean for my dinner dates, for my country club invitations? May we be willing to lose our comfort, to lose our social status with so-called Christians in order to step into the hurting and suffering parts of the people around us. May we be good neighbors. May we be unwilling to be blinded by the fear of what we might lose and the comfort of our current social structures. May we be willing to stand up for what is true no matter what we might lose because Jesus is better.

What sins of God are we refusing to see because we don't want to lose our comfort that we have. So, what are we waiting here? 24. I'm going to get them quick. I'm going to try. So, for the second time, they called him a man who had been blind and said to him, give glory to God, we know that this man is a sinner. So, again, they're forcing him into their option. Their option is, God healed you, but this guy's a sinner. So, like, you know, that's the only way you're going to be good with all sins here. Give glory to God, see your sight, and say that Jesus is a sinner. He said, whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know. I was blind, and now I see.

He is all. He is all. He needs to know. He said to them, what did he do to you? Again, they're going back to the light. How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? I'm just going to look at this. Do you also want to become his disciples? Why are they so infatuated with their sins? They reviled me, and you are his disciples. We are disciples of Moses. Again, spiritual blindness, missing the whole point of what Moses was all about, which is to point them to Jesus. They're so infatuated with the old sin that they're unwilling to see the same right in front of them. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but that's for this many.

We do not know where he comes from. The main answer is, why, this is an amazing thing. I love it. He's getting bolder. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. You guys are supposed to be the ones who know everything. You're the religious leaders, the powerful ones. How does this guy make it into a synagogue? How does he make me a blind man to see? And you guys have no clue what's going on. He says, never since the word of the beginning has it been heard that anyone opened a blind man, it's the eyes of a blind man. Okay. If anyone was going to know anything about blind men and having their son restored, who would it be? But this thing about, you know what I'm saying? He searched out every type of, like, possible solution.

Every type of religious person. Every type of rich, crass, imaginable. He's like, I'm blind. I'll do anything. Let me see. And he's like, look. There's no history anywhere of anyone blind ever being able to see. I'm going to say it's him that he works for. He's probably done his own work. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. They answered him, like, you and Blaine said, you were born in utter sin. That's a very bad theology. And you would teach us. And they turned him out, essentially, as it's communicated in front of the synagogue.

Notice here, this is the fourth time the blind man sees his story. A man born physically blind becomes the sent one of God to expose those who are spiritually blind. He has no internal theological understanding. He probably wouldn't even meet the boxers and qualifications of this church. And yet, he's inviting the religious leaders to reciprocate and follow Jesus. Who can set them free?

Jesus is in the business of healing blind people and sending them out to help other blind people find better results. Many of you, like this man, have a I was blank and an unblank story. Are we using it to proclaim the good use of Jesus to those around us? I was stubborn. I was a distant. I was, whatever your thing is, and Jesus has set you free from that. Use that testimony to go to those who are hurting and struggling and for the good use of Jesus. Many of you, like this one, are actually missing out on the incredible supernatural work of God all around us because we're blinded by our own bad ideas. They aren't nearly as biblical as we think today. I look out in my mouth today. Usually when that happens, it's because I'm talking to myself.

Okay. The best way to conduct bad ideas is always better ideas. Notice the Pharisees here. They're not even good at debating. You know, like last week. Remember, there was something that happened last week. Yeah, the demons was talking to them. They were like, well, you're a Samaritan and you have a demon. In this reason, it's like, well, you were born in sin and you, like, they're unwilling to engage the topic. He's saying, look at me. I was blind and now I see. What do you have to say about them? They're unwilling to deal with the good ideas. They're unwilling to deal with the truth. And so they don't even slander them. And the wise and defending others. Is this not how we handle arguments today? If we have, if we're so instanced in one idea and someone offers a better idea, how often is our response?

This is an excellent idea. I've never thought about that before. You are blind and now you speak. I'm going to, like, sleep on that, think about it, wonder what I might have to learn from that experience. No, we say, who do you think you are? You're listening to CNN. You think you know what you're talking about? I'm like, look, I was watching Tucker last night live on F, and I know that that's not true. No, we, we, we just throw rocks at each other. The Pharisees move down on the miraculous work of God because they're throwing rocks at a man who has experienced the life-transforming power of Jesus.

The Pharisees are offended by this man's testimony, how ironic that a blind man can now see, and those who think they can see it are demonstrating their own spiritual blindness. Christ's miracle has essentially become a lived, terrible, or physical example of spiritual truth. And I can't help but wonder how many of us are spiritually blinded by our own bad ideas or missing out on what God wants to do all around us. Because we're scared, because we're scared, and it doesn't fit neatly into our system of theological classes. Not only did Jesus see the man, but he saw the man, but he saw the man, he just excommunicated. Jesus heard that he had been cast out of having found him.

Jesus finds us in the midst of our suffering, in the midst of our pain. When we obey him, and that leads to bad things for us, we still have Jesus in the midst of it. He says, you believe in the Son of Man, and he's vomited in for doings, and so that I may believe, amen. And Jesus said, and you have seen him, and you have received that he's speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe. He sees, and he worships him. Jesus said, for judgment I came into the world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him overheard these things. Are we also blind, they said?

Jesus said, if you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say, we see, your guilt remains. But I overheard Jesus telling this meaning, the meaning of the parable, the meaning of the story. Look, I came to set blind people free, and to expose those who are actually blind to their blindness. And I believe the Pharisees in that moment were convicted, realizing what Jesus was doing, but rather than listening to the conviction, their walls come up. Are you said, we're blind? Do you think we're blind? By hearing this man's physical blindness, he exposes the spiritual blindness of everyone around this miracle. Luke chapter 2, the baby can come up. I'm sorry, I don't worry, it's over. Let's tell us what he meant. Luke chapter 2, when Jesus is born, there's a man in sin, and he's all my favorite characters in all the Bible.

He's in the synagogue, he just comes in, and he picks up Jesus, which is weird if you're a baby and a random person who picks up your kid. Don't do that, please. I know most of you, and it's fun, but like. And he says, this child is destined to cause many in Israel to fall and many others to rise. He's been sent as a Son of God, and many will oppose him. As a result, the deepest thoughts of many hearts will be revealed, and a sword will pierce your very soul. This is what's happening with the Pharisees. He's exposing their spiritual blindness. They're digging their heels in and their own ideology. They were convicted, and rather than receiving the conviction, they brain-sifted. Look, this is a long story. With a lot of characters and a lot of potential application, and I'll probably preach five sermons in the morning in this library over time.

But the center of the entire story is really about who can see and who can't see. It's about the spiritual blindness of that, our ideology, and how Jesus came to set us free from our blindness and to give us sight. He came to invite us out of darkness and into the light. Bible commentary writer, this one of how she did our hearts, and Mary, many times, and writes this, summarizing the passage. The ultimate question, she says, the ultimate question of this passage is, has Jesus done the work of God? I would summarize, is Jesus who he says in this? Is he the Christ? Is he the Messiah? This is the question of the passage. For men, others are resounding yes. Others answer with an emphatic no. Still others register on circumstances. In John's estimate, those who refuse to accept the implication of the man's testimony,

that I was blind, and that I see, are those who do not judge his right judgment. That I blind the work of God in and through the Lord of Jesus. So, ultimately, my question to you this morning is, what category do you find yourself in? Are you here answering a resounding, yes, Jesus has done the work of God? Jesus is doing the work of God. Or are you in an emphatic no or maybe some uncertainty? Are you here and you're still not surging, yes, who he says he is? Or maybe you're still questioning and wrestling with different doubts? We belong those that you're here. We invite you to continue seeking John as the best book for you to wrestle with as you wrestle with your questions about God. Our prayer seems to be removed from uncertainty and unbelief to pray for the things that reach the light.

If you fall in that category, I'd love to invite you to starting point next Sunday after church. It's all about answering these questions. But if you're in here, which is probably the majority of us, and you're on the side of having said yes to Jesus, I ask you, which of these bad ideas represented in the text of keeping you in the shadows from the abundant life that you use ultimately on the source? We've said yes to keep you in the shadows from the abundant life that there are pockets of shadows all around our lives and there are bad ideas. We've prioritized in your theology of the people and the spectacle of the things of God. We're really submissive to religious leaders. We're afraid of what you might lose. We really say yes to Jesus. Are you willing to let you expose your spiritual blindness so that we can send you out to point out the spiritual blindness of others? Let's bring in the hearts of the Lord.
