Sunday @ Canvas Community Church
2023-08-07
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FP8Z9mmXgmo

Thank you. Thank you. So, here we go. So, Ryan assigned me one of our core values for today. By the way, I want you to know that I appreciate that all of you have been praying for Pastor Ryan for this healing. I'm more than all of you because I want you up here, not me. So, we're glad you're back, we're glad you're healthy, glad you're ready to go. So, Ryan has asked if I would speak on a core practice, We Unite for the Gospel. And I am going to read a message connected in with one of the other core practices about we rely on the written and living Word of God. So, I'll try to connect it in there. And just for the sake of those of you who prefer to, like, take a book and preach through a book, I love doing that.

I know next week Ryan is going to talk about our mission and vision, our main thing, you know, why we exist. I think it's critical that we're clear on that. But then following that, we're going to walk through the book of John for pretty much the rest of the year. We're going to talk about the seven signs in the book of John and the seven I.M. statements in the book of John. Those were not accidental. Those didn't just happen. God, through John, intended those things. And so, we want to unpack that in a chronological order that we find it, well, I should say, in a written order that we find it in the Gospel of John. John doesn't tell us he's chronological, so we might get the chronology wrong, but we'll get the flow of John correct.

We'll follow him because John has purposes in putting things where he does based on how God inspired him. But today, I want to talk about We Unite for the Gospel. You know, one of the challenges and yet privileges of being in this role, I get to talk with people, families and friends, at critical moments in their life, times like weddings, times like baptisms, times like funerals. And I get to talk with people, and I get to talk with people, sometimes, and I get an inside seat at how, can I say it, how petty we can be sometimes?

I can't tell you the struggles that I watch as families over, are we having chicken or pork at the wedding? I mean, some of the planning stuff, and the reality is here, folks, that many of those struggles are about connections to dreams, connections to hope, connections to desires, also connection to egos, and dare I say, sometimes a little arrogance, we're cockiness on our part. And so, I get the privilege of being in the midst of that, and because of that, it helps me kind of check myself. Why do I share that? Well, so, last Sunday I told you that my daughter-in-law went into labor, right? Now, 62 hours later, and her labor never stopped, Matthew Justinian Lewis was born.

Ten fingers, ten fingers, ten toes, lots more here than I have right now. Healthy, and we are thrilled, we're excited. And yet, I have to decide if I, my desires are to be a GPS or an SGP. Grandpa proudly sharing, or sandwich grandpa posting.

My, my children and I do not agree about how much posting I should be able to do of my grandson. I've done that to my grandson on social media. I mean, I get it, you know, they want to kind of be careful and control that, and I understand that. But, hey, look, you were, you were, I liked your butt when you were his size. It's already the best year of my life, committed to you, buddy. I mean, do you know how much it costs to put a kid through college? I mean, come on, don't I have some rights here? Don't I have some authority here? Don't I have some rights here? Don't I have some rights here? Don't I have some rights here?

I have a blind spot in my job, my business, my relationships, or my theology. The definition of a blind spot, we all have glasses that we look at things through. I'll never forget, I was in a Bible study. I won't give the specifics, but it was a discovery Bible study. And in every study, we asked the same six questions. And we tried to stick just the text we were at when people were cross-referencing and setting up the people who didn't know as much as they did. And we were looking at one particular passage, and it was a passage I had always understood one way. I always understood it that way. And someone looked at it and said, well, so, it's the passage that talks about one taken and one's left. You know? There's fields and there's homes and one's taken and one's left.

And he said this and said, you know, it's not clear to me that it's the one who's doing good that has taken it. And I'm like, oh, come on, there it is. I mean, read it. What is the matter with you? And I literally, he's a brand new believer. He's like, who we told the Lord? And he said this. He was a smart guy. And I just kind of crossed it. We went on. The next week I came back and I confusedly apologized. Because you know what? It takes me right. It's not clear. But I had seen it so clearly for so long because it was the glasses that I had on. And I'm not saying it's not the right way, but there is an authentic other way to look at this passage and I needed someone else to actually point out my blind spot.

The second thing I needed was super humility. I need to realize that even those things that I'm too sure about, I might be wrong about. I think I quoted this last week that I read a medical doctor who said in medical school they have to teach their doctors 50% of what we teach you is going to be wrong. We just don't know which 50%. That's kind of a scary thought. But they do the best with what they have. And they say, hold up, I don't know what I have. And so I receive it and I accept it. But somehow we need to approach this whole sense of uniting for the gospel, recognizing I need you. I need humility. And then number three, when we're all said and done, I need to prioritize the gospel. I need to prioritize the kingdom of God.

So Ryan asked that I connect it. And I'm not going to spend a lot of time here because I spend a lot of time in other messages on this. But this one's connected to we rely on the living and written word of God. We unite to the gospel. It's another kind of core practice for us that we rely and rely in many, many, many ways. But notice that we say the written and living word of God. Because here's the deal. The Scriptures are the inspired and authoritative witness to God's supreme revelation of Jesus. Do you want to know what's the most profound revelation of God to us in? It's not the book. It's the name. It's Jesus. God incarnate. God himself came down and lived among us. He tabernacled among us. And thank God that he put in his plan to inspire men and women to write out the Scriptures and give us an authoritative witness.

But their authoritative witness is true for the supreme revelation of Jesus. And because that's true, we need to be humble. We need one another. And we need to prioritize Jesus. I'm going to say something and some of you might be uncomfortable with it. That's okay. That's part of my job. But when I'm done, I think you'll see that it's true. When we unpack the Scriptures and we need to follow the Scriptures, it is important that we weigh Scriptures by their intended theological proximity to Jesus. In other words, how clearly do they reveal, point to, help us understand the supreme revelation of God who is a person? Jesus. And I know that we get into trouble when we talk about weighing the Scriptures, but it is an absolute, essential activity if we are going to unite for the gospel.

So, I was actually going to do a little exercise, and I'm just technologically unsophisticated, and I didn't get it out there soon enough. But what I was going to do was give you guys all like an app. I'm sure there's one out there. I don't know what it is. It's like you point to one of those little fancy code things, you know, and get the app. And I was going to put up two Scriptures, and you were going to tell me which were more important. So, for instance, I might put up, "Confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead," Romans 10 9. Or, below that, I might put up, "Greet one another and the whole or two." And I'm pretty sure we get 98% on the first one.

It might be one or two. You know, I have a few. By the way, I was serious with Ryan. He said, "Be really careful, Matt. If you put that verse up about taking a little wine with your water, you're going to get some, you're going to get some Legacy Pointless people in and say, "Yes, that one, that one!" So, I didn't do it. But my hope was then to actually finally get to some places where you're going to have to do a values judgment. I'm going to take two verses and maybe some two different theological camps where, because you know, theological camps camp. They camp on various verses. They camp on various books. They camp on various truths. And God's ways are not our ways. His thoughts are not our thoughts. You can know the mind of God.

God is fully able to reveal, but we are not fully able to figure that out. And so, we have this tension. We have this seemingly paradox. This inability to reconcile. I was going to put them up. And then the hope was with that little thing, it would actually pop up numbers. So, on the easy ones, you know, 1, 8, 8, and 2. And everyone's like wondering who the two people that think we can greet one of the Holy Kiss. But then some of them, I'm almost sure we get like a 60-40. And some of the people I consult with said, "No, don't do that. You're going to create problems, Matt. Don't do that." And others said, "No, no, it's really good for people to realize that everything I think is not necessarily what everyone else thinks."

The point to this message is, there are some essential doctrines of the gospel, of the kingdom of God, some realities about Jesus. And we choose to unite around those. Now, don't hear me say the other ones aren't important. Please don't hear me say that. I want people who have a theological perspective and have thought it out and thought it out well to share their theological perspectives. I just want them to do it with the same humility that I'm going to try to do as I share it. And the same ears that I'm going to try to use when they share it, that they have those when I share them. We don't agree. One of the things I've appreciated about that. That's a good job in that, in that area. So, if Jesus is the center of this theological piece.

Let me just say this and I'll leave it. I'm not going to unpack it. But, if you can only get to your preferred doctrinal position by relying primarily on the oppressive, you might want to rethink yourself. Let me just say it and I'll leave it. Okay. So, I'm going to give you some examples. So, they asked Jesus. One of them, an expert of the law, tested him with his question. "Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law?" Now, Jesus could have preemptively quoted Paul. Paul hadn't written it yet, but the Holy Spirit could have inspired it. Because, at least when he was in eternity, he knew all things, and the Holy Spirit. And he could have said, "Well, you know, according to God, all Scripture that God breathed is useful for teaching, rebuke, and collecting, and training in righteousness."

He could have caught into question their assumption that there are some things in Scripture that get priority over other things. He didn't happen to do that, by the way. No, what he said is, "Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. And this is the first and greatest commandment." By the way, I love it. He says, "Do four things. Love God with heart, soul, mind, and faith." Some of you remember back to our spiritual stations series, where we talked about the stations, loving God with various aspects of who you are. But, at least for Jesus, there was a commandment that took priority when you looked at the entirety of Scripture. "Love God with all of your mind, heart, soul, and strength." And he said the second one is kind of like it.

Notice he said the second one. He's actually doing a little ranking here. Okay. Fineberg, he made the comment that reading Scripture is kind of like an arrow, a board that you shoot arrows at. I went to a dark board and then I realized that dark boards are really confusing for those who play it all at home. The center is not always the most points, you know, so I avoided that. And the point here is, that arrow in the blue, is that valuable? You can answer. Is that valuable? Do you have points for that? What about the one in the yellow? Is that more valuable than blue? So, do we, this we thought the blue doesn't count as much as the yellow, so just pull the blue and the red out. They don't count as blue and the yellow.

Is that the way we play the game? No. The blue and the red are important because all Scripture is God-breathed. And all Scripture is possible. Possible for teaching and rebuking and correcting and, I forget the fourth one, but you get it. Thank you. I knew there was someone who would get it. But let's just say it louder. There are other people here. I'm glad you didn't hear it because I know you helped me out. I appreciate that. Let me get another one that I think is helpful. And I'm not going to talk about divorce here. But I'm going to talk about Jesus' use of Scripture when he was questioned about divorce. Because divorce has been a confrontational issue for a long time in biblical history. All the way back in the time of Jesus, there were really two major camps.

One that was very strict and one that was very lenient. And both were sure that they were right. And so the Pharisees were pretty sure they could trap him up. Because this was one of these perpetual difficult issues that they didn't feel could be fully resolved. There were people on both sides. And they asked Jesus, "Is it lawful?" Look at this. And Jesus goes back to creation. He goes back to the very beginning of the Scriptures. He goes back to Genesis. And he basically says to them, "Look, God made it this way. What God joins? Don't separate." They better meet God. They said, "Okay, Lord. Well, so Moses said," and they quote Moses, "That Moses said you to give a certificate of divorce." What about that one, Jesus? To which Jesus replies, "Moses permitted you to divorce your wives because your hearts were sore, but it was not this way from the beginning."

So here's the point. Jesus is weighted the Scriptures. Acknowledging the authenticity of all of it. But to come out what God's desire is. I had a really good friend who said to me, he told a story. He was a college buddy and then he became a ministry buddy and we served on the board for admissions together. And he and some friends of his actually modeled the way, he modeled a form of church planting that we just went and ran from. Because it was so helpful and so meaningful. But he told the story of his brother, his older brother, who was his and his wife. His wife's Cassie, Robbie's Cassie. They were their sewers in faith. He said, "I looked up to my brother all my life. I mean, all my life through my Christian journey, I wanted to be like my brother."

He loved Jesus. He served Jesus. He studied the Scriptures. He lived holy. He did. Many of the things that he was able to do, I struggled with. He said, "I still looked up to him." And he said, "And then one night, he called me and he asked to put Cassie on the phone too. And he called Cassie and I that he and his wife were getting a divorce." And he said that, "All right, my wife. I just didn't know what to do with her." Because my hero was doing something that he didn't believe in. And he said that he and Cassie had this long conversation that night. He was all nice to talk about their own relationship, about their own marriage, about community, about our faith, about how things work. And he said, "When you got done, it was early in the morning or two in the morning.

You came to this conclusion." For us, two things. Number one, divorce is not a lesson. Number two, if we don't pay a lot of attention to our relationship, it's a possibility. I thought what a wonderful, gracious, honest statement. It comes out by doing what Jesus does, when he reads the Scriptures. So, too, we try here, we attempt here, we work here, we teach here to weigh the Scriptures in a way that allows us to unite for the gospel. Okay. Let me give you an example of this. It comes out of 1 Corinthians 8. If you have your Bible, you can open it. I'm going to read the whole passage. If you have your phone, you can turn that on. I'll be out of the NIV. If you have a phone, go to the NIV, it'll be easier to follow.

Or go to another one, and then you can check the NIV. That's fine. That's fine. So, Paul is talking to a church that has Jews and Gentiles, a church that actually has a lot of problems. I often, when people say, we want to be the New Testament church. I always say, which one? The Corinthian church? I mean, they really have issues. In fact, Paul's letter there, the first, he keeps saying, now concerning, now concerning. And it almost just sensed that they had actually written him a letter and said, hey, we've got all these issues, Paul. What should we do? And he just kind of went through the laundry list of all of their things and said, well, now concerning, now concerning, now concerning. And he gave them, what, I don't know, the time, maybe he knew it was inspired, maybe he didn't, I don't know.

But God's inspired word to them, now concerning various things. And for them, the issue was that temples in the Greco-Roman world generally had restaurants attached to it. So, people would sacrifice non-believers, this is Romans, would take meat to the temple and they would sacrifice it. And they would, like, cut off the ear from the animal and give that to God. And the rest of it, they'd sell the marketer and arrest them. I'm like the pastor who said, you know, we take the offering and I just trust God, I draw a circle and I throw it up to whatever lands in the circle belongs to God and the rest is mine. And the other guy says, yeah, I do the same thing, but I have more faith. I draw the circle and I throw it all up and whatever lands outside the circle belongs to God in the middle is mine.

And the third guy says, hey, look, you guys don't have enough faith. It's all God. God gets it all. So, I take it and I throw it all up and say, God, take whatever you want. Whatever comes back is mine. So, these folks were giving, were sacrificing, but very little went to the gods and the rest got sold. And the challenge was, that the Jews went to some of the restaurants. And the Gentiles who were converted, they sacrificed to idols. And so, that's the context. We'll say a little more later because we're going to return as well, chapter 10. But listen to it. Now, about food sacrificed to idols. So, they must have sent him a letter and said, what do we do with this? We know that, quote, we all possess knowledge, but knowledge puffs up while love builds up.

By the way, note in here that Paul has a little sarcasm in the use of the word knowledge. So, those who think they know something do not yet know as they ought to know. They'll have knowledge. No, it's not inadequate. But whoever loves God, right already, is known by God. So then, about any food sacrificed to idols. We know that an idol is nothing at all in the world. And that there is no God but one. For even if they are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many, quote, gods and many more. Yet, for us, there is one God, the Father from whom all things came and from whom we live. And there is but one more, Jesus Christ, through whom all things came and through whom we live.

But not everyone possesses this knowledge. Some people are still so accustomed to idols. They've lived in an idol world for so long. That when they eat, free, and sacrifice to idols, they think of it as having been sacrificed to a God. And since their conscience is weak, it is defiled. Steel doesn't bring us near to God. So we're no worse if we eat or better if we do not eat. Be careful. Be careful that the exercise of your rice does not become a stumbling block to the weak. For if someone with a weak conscience sees you with all your knowledge eating in an idol's temple, won't that person be emboldened to eat or to sacrifice to idols? So this weak brother or sister for whom Christ died is destroyed by your knowledge? He's not saying your knowledge is wrong.

He's saying your knowledge is insufficient. Because to know and to not do is to not know. But what you say you know, you don't fully know. And you're using it in a way that benefits you. And God wants us to be united for the gospel. There's something more important here. And we'll see that again, by the way. So this weak brother or sister for whom Christ died is destroyed by your knowledge. When you sin against them in this way, watch out. When you take your freedom knowing that you can eat the meat, knowing that there's no idol, it's okay. It's fine. Nothing wrong with it. And when you do it in a way that they watch it, and their own face is crushed, even though they can see how much they're doing, they're not as skinny as you are.

And yet when you do that, you sin against them. That's a pretty profound statement. When you sin against them in this way, and ruin their weak conscience, here we go. You sin against Christ. Therefore, if what I eat causes my brother or sister to fall into sin, I will not eat meat again, so they will not, so I will not cause them to fall. This picks up again in chapter 10. And in this context, it's no longer about going to a restaurant, but for many of these Greek converts to Christianity to fulfill Judaism, if you will, many of these converts and these now followers of Jews would buy their meat at the temple as well. And some of them are still buying their meat at the temple because what do they do? You do, you do know that when people first get saved,

some of the practices that I'm so good sometimes continue. I have a friend, a guy who read me in the Lord at one point and say, "Do you know what you get when a jerk gets saved?" A saved jerk. Yeah. That God's transformation is often over time. That God can do this wonderful work in someone, but there are some co-ons there. There's some behavioral stuff that the Holy Spirit has to work out within us, and so these people are going back to normal practices and saying, "Oh, what should we do when we go to their house and they serve us with meat, and we're pretty sure it was sacrificed to an idol, and how should we handle this?" And here's what it says. "No one should seek their own good, but rather the good of others."

Continue the verse. "Eat anything sold in the meat market without raising questions for conscience. For the earth is the Lord and everything in it. If an unbeliever invites you to a meal and you want to eat, eat whatever's put in front of you without raising a question of conscience. But, if someone says to you this has been offered in sacrifice, then don't eat it." Now, there's only an issue out of it. But if they make an issue out of it, then be clear about your conscience. There's only one God, and that's the one you follow. So the behavior can be very different depending on the context, the circumstance. The operational corrupt thing to do as a follower of Jesus is not based on a rule, "Eat the meat or don't eat the meat." But it's rather based on how he's going to influence someone who Jesus does for.

Now, realize that's not true in every context. You know? The boy in high school says to the girl in high school, "I love you, sleep with me, if you sleep with me I'll go to church." No, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's what he said in this context. But there are many things that don't really violate our conscience. And so, in those cases, let's lay down. Why? For the sake of the others. Both for the sake of the one who told you, and for the sake of the conscience, I am referring to the other person's conscience. I have another great illustration, but I'm not going to give it. So, two weeks ago I talked about bounded set. Many of you remember that. I'm not going to refer to it again. And then I talked about the strength of set.

The bounded sets as rules and regulations. My own bounded set, when I first came to the Lord, was if you're a Christian, you confess Jesus as your Lord and believe that he died from the sins and raised from the dead. You go to church Sunday morning, you go to church Sunday night, you go to church Wednesday night if you're really spiritual. eyes and you witness that you speak in comments. That's what you did if you were, like, about a set person in the tradition of high praise, when I met the Lord in the comments. The second set is more about motion and trajectory. It's about, are you pointed toward Jesus and are you moving? Are you pointed away from Jesus and moving? And so the important piece is, is not that you have the bounded set all handled, but what should the rest be for the

faith of the gospel? When I teach this, I didn't last time, but I usually teach a third paradigm, a way of looking at this, and I'm going to walk into that really quick. It's called a developmental set. It was developed by Dr. Terry Wardle, not Wardle as an L, Wardle as an A, Wardle. And he said this, he said that people develop in their faith similarly to the way a child develops into adulthood. That there are developmental stages. And that there are important pieces that we need to focus on depending on our developmental stage. By the way, this resonates with both Jesus and Paul. Jesus said, you know, if I tell you earthly things and you don't understand, I can't even begin to tell about heavenly things. I'm going to start down here where you can get it, and then we'll get on to those things. In 1 Corinthians 3.2, they talk about the

difference between milk and solid food. The writer of Hebrews, so now we have three. We have Jesus, and we have Paul, and we have the writer of Hebrews. He says, you should be teachers, but you need elementary teaching. Milk versus solid food. You need, which is the solid food, is teaching about righteousness. Now, if you get a chance, go back and look at that passage in Hebrews. Because some of the things that he calls milk, a lot of us think are like the meat of the word. And they're not. At least, of course, if you think of the word of Hebrews, the meat of the word is righteousness. It's training in righteousness. Teaching about righteousness. Okay. So, I think the paradigm, well, I can't point to text and verse that says this is the, I think it's a helpful way, again, to just look at things. By the way,

Paul kind of refers to milk and meat as, like, you know, basically the meat. But, but Peter said this, like newborns, crave the spiritual milk to grow up in your salvation. This is something about going back to the basics and craving it. It's really pretty good. Okay. So, when you are an an insect, what you really need, if you experience you both, you need to experience a place of celebration, a place of consecration, a place of safety. Here's my question, though. When you came to faith, did you get those things in the church? Because you know a child that doesn't get what they need when they're an insect will develop all kinds of dysfunctions in adulthood. And with that, sometimes what we desperately need to do when they're in adulthood and they're acting out because they didn't get, they weren't celebrating the time. They weren't in a safe

environment. They weren't fully given over to God. It creates some challenges in your life and the only way to really change that, as far as I'm concerned, is to allow them to have an episodic encounter with Jesus and his people and be celebrating the beginning. Come to a place where they're safe. They're safe to make mistakes. They're safe to mess up things. They're safe to do dumb things. They'll be corrected, but they'll be loved and celebrated and consecrated again and again and again and again. That's the beginning place of this developmental piece, and it's important and it's critical. But then at some point as you become a child, you need some maturation. You need to learn. And then for maturation, young adult, you get to the space that, I'll use the word calling. I hate to quote Frederick Nietzsche, but he says something that's really worthwhile. He said, "He who

has a law to live for can bear almost any what?" "He who has a law to live for can bear almost any what?" Some of you might know the story of the stonecutter. I tell you who said it, but every place I've read it says we don't know who said it. But the story of the stonecutter, the noble comes to the stonecutter and he says, "Tell me about your job." And the stonecutter's like irate and says, "Open up your ass. Can't you see?" They bring me a stone. I cut into the right shape. I haven't moved over. They bring me another stone. I cut into the right shape. When I'm done with the day, I go home. I come back and I do it again. And that's what I do day in and day out.

I cut stones. It's pretty straightforward. How can you don't see that? Noble had a bath sauce and he went over to the next one. He said, "So tell me about your job." "Oh, well, so I cut stones so I can provide for my family. So I can help other people. So that we can live. It's a job and it's a way that I can do the things that matter to me in my life." And he went, "Oh, that's helpful." And he went to the third stonecutter. He said, "Tell me about your job. Ah, so I form stones to build an edifice that allows a whole community that lives in darkness to move toward light, to have the encounter of a living God. I'm building something that's going to last thousands of years." At this point in your development, you need to come to a place of corn.

Let me guess, a child developmental or a spiritual child developmentally? A bishop friend of mine one time was talking to someone and the person was complaining about the church and said, "You know, I just don't get saved." God didn't believe just about 10 years. He said, "I don't get saved." He said, "You mean you don't worship God there?" "Oh, no, no, no, they, you know, it took about 20 minutes and they praise God." "Okay." "You mean the Scriptures aren't right there?" "Oh, no, no, they read the Scriptures every week." "So, the only people who need spoons that cost off are babies and sick people. Which one are you?" "At some point in our development, we need to hear a call from God about how we focus on the kingdom." "If you want to make it happen, if you want to be fulfilled, if you want to be a disciple of Jesus."

"And then at some point, do anything during adulthood." "And folks, in adulthood, the reality is that you realize this walk isn't easy." "Obedience to Jesus can be challenging." "That my preferences don't come first." "That my calling, sometimes, well, no, all the time, carries this at a cross in some context." "That there is an engagement with powers of evil." "You do realize that we are, according to the Bible, we are in a spiritual battle." "And there are principalities and powers." "And although Jesus soundly defeated them on the cross, it's almost like the difference between D-Day and D-Day." "The cross was D-Day, but there was still a lot of garbage going on until D-Day was finished." "And we're in that place between. D-Day is done. Jesus wins." "They need us to be on the winning side, but there are still battles to be fought."

"We don't send babies to do that, folks." "We don't send children to do that." "But we do at some point call adults to step into the battle." "Because adults realize if they don't step into the battle, the battle's going to step into them." "It's going to come." "So here is the issue, and then I'll close." "You can be an adult in one area and be an absolute instant in another." "In fact, most of us are adults in an area or two, and we're children in other areas." "And often the most competent adults in an area fail to recognize that they are instant in another." "By the way, the place I saw this most clearly was..." "You saw this on steroids during COVID." "Everybody was sure. And everybody disagreed." "And everybody was sure that a bunch of you are idiots."

"It's just these guys thought you were idiots, these guys thought you were idiots." "I was shocked at the way that invaded the church." "And I want to say, if that kind of stuff invades the church, and we allow that to separate us," "then we have a bunch of infants in some aspects that's allowing us to rule." "I can have incredible Bible knowledge and theological knowledge and be judgmental." "I can be incredibly successful in business and go on the church board and have no clue about gospel priorities." "I can have a finally achieved sense of mercy and compassion, and yet I create a tendency of people I try to help." "Because I can be an incredible adult in some areas and still be a child in others." "And so when we say that we unite for the gospel, it's a recognition that we're all on this developmental journey."

"And we are going to disagree." "We're going to have disagreements." "And we don't want to hide those. Don't want to ignore those. Don't want to see them under the carpet." "But I want to be able to say, for most things, you're more important to me than me." "I'm not saying this isn't important. This is important." "And I'll argue this, and you argue this."
