Like No Other: The Official's Son
2023-09-04
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N1ejDvXT5Ug

Thank you. Thank you. I'm super excited about that. I was like, I don't want to talk. I've been talking all week about this, and they went here to be a laser pointer, and then I was, that's all I was thinking about. So, if y'all got sunglasses for tomorrow. But, yeah, I'm super pumped about this message, and I'm so confident that, y'all, I just wanted to do something in somebody's heart. I wanted to make this, it can't be announcements, but I just kind of wanted to do this little tidbit that I'll be available in the, we've got a local summer front. Is everybody in the notes? It's got big stories, got letters and everything now. But, I'm going to be back there today. If anybody wants to talk about the message, if anybody is convicted of a spirit that they should be taking mixed steps, I'm going to make myself available back for today.

So, I'm going to tell you a funny story. He's like, I've got to break the eyes. He made a minute. Last week, I was back in Southern's Place, and I was talking to y'all, and Ron was like, hey man, someone's up, well, go ahead, you ready? I'm like, yeah, yeah, it's all right. I wanted the chamber, no big deal. And he's like, you know, one in the chamber for John and four, like, we're just writing the Psalms, and I'm like, no, it's, I said, it's John 15. He's like, it is not John 15. And I said, what? So, I do need to write a sermon, and he was so worried about it. He texted me, like, Sunday night, and he's like, man, if you can't do it, like, I'll stay doing that. And I'm like, no, I got it.

And Robert came first with me this week and prayed to this, and I hope you guys knew that today. So, if you want to get a little bit of prep work, where we at? Anybody know what we said? I'm confused, you guys, who the John's are keen for me? We're in John four. He's been writing for me today. So, I don't need anybody to stand up and read it for us, but did you guys have a question for y'all? Did y'all do this growing up in Sunday school where you sound like your teacher gave you a verse? Yes. What do we call them? I don't know. Yes. Store drills. What does this stuff do? That's what I just went down, I went down memory lane with that, but, like, it was in Sunday school where, like, a kid had to stand up.

I mean, those of you that didn't grow up in Sunday school, the teacher would give a chapter of verse to a certain book in the Bible, and they'd have to stand up and read it because, let's face it, you can't trust that Sunday school kids actually found in the chapter they were looking for. So, you had to prove it. But let me give you a little bit of insight. I was reading about this this morning. A little bit of insight on what store drills and how you kind of rated your competitors. And if you haven't heard that Bible, you are going to get destroyed, okay? Because the letters look much better. You guys are just up the page enough to get through it quick. But, I'll digress. Since everyone's got the Bible app and nobody's probably wants to store them and read it, here's

the winner you did that for us. I'm going to pick everyone with a pop quiz, making sure you guys can get Sunday on leisure. You guys know about Sunday on leisure, right? I get it. So, I know, unless I'm like, you gotta go here, it's where you're really into a series of filming and then being. You get in the car and you're like, I don't know where I just spent the last hour. I don't know what he talks about. I don't know what implications I can have in my life. It's like you wonder if you got, like, abducted or you got hit with, like, a little kickstick from Money in Black. Y'all remember those? You guys probably don't, because you're all good church people. So, you guys are good to see. First, let me tell you real quick and then I'll get into the message.

And I'll quickly add a little. Dear Heavenly Father, we ask that you fill the room with your spirit, Lord, that you would use this message, that you would use me as your vessel. A vessel that either transport someone to the starting line of this venue with you, or as sustenance for a Christian for a fellow believer already running the race at the forest with our eyes on you. May we be people of faith. May we be people who believe what you say and go and do it. Lord, give us strength. Give us wisdom. But most of all, give us strength. And we pray all of this for your glory and our neighbor's food. And we pray all of this for you. And we pray all of this for you. Amen. So good church people. What did we talk about last week?

Remember, I got a lady's point. Jesus turned the water to one. Where is that at? Remember the panel? Well, there's a guy too. And it draws to the next level. Which realm was it in? Or it's in Pena, but of Galilee, right? It's kind of that outstreet, that realm of Galilee. Jesus turned the water to one. And Jesus, right? The perfect way for that was Jesus bearing our cup of suffering so that we could drink his cup of the celebration, right? But what he accomplished on the cross, he also pulls us into. The whole goal behind this series and this sermon today has been and hopefully will be these two ideas. And I want to try to test trust in me with those things. Your trust is misplaced. This is quite almost a simple. We'll get to the next one.

See, I'm already dropping the ball on it. Okay. What is John wanting us to believe about Jesus in this passage? So for all my note-takers out there, I want you to write this down because I'm going to give you my thoughts. I want you to think about this question. What has John, the disciples of Jesus, want us to see and realize about our Lord Jesus? Remember, John is writing this well after the events have taken place. So how does this story point us to and what he knows of the risen Savior? What is he trying to get us to understand about this risen Jesus? How our beliefs, not just our head knowledge, but also our heart action, should lead to a shift in our lives to better represent Jesus? See, John is telling us this story for a reason.

What is it? If you guys remember in the overview, this is what I'm going to say from getting on the airplane. That's 50.001% belief. What do we need to know about Jesus to kind of cross that threshold? That's what John's trying to relate to his readers. And once we gleaned into Jesus, gleaned into following Jesus, what do we need as believers to continue to learn and build on our beliefs, right? Not to stay at the 50.001% belief, but how do we restore and grow as Christians and followers of Jesus? And question two, how might this believing lead to life? I'm going to spend some time on passing from this today. So I hope you guys, I don't get up here that often because I've got like tens of frustrations of like, I want to share this. So you're going to hang out, I'm going to hang out in my space for a little bit. And I got the mic, so.

So with this, how can we, how am I just believing lead to life? How can we, through this book and through this passage, find life? I'm not talking about the meandering kind of life, right? I'm not talking about the ordinary, but this abundant life, the here and now that Jesus talks about. To this point, to finding this abundant life, C.S. Lewis has a famous part that I experienced in real time this week. I don't know what I was talking about this morning. Hmm, there's something you want. Or he calls 30 kings back here today. So the part from C.S. Lewis is that it would seem that our Lord finds out his desires not too strong, but too weak. We are fast-hearted creatures fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us.

Like if he's outside who wants to go on making mud pies in a flood, because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of holiday at the sea. We are far too easily pleased. We. So I think for the American church population and for the Western church population, and I tickle them a lot because I'm part of the American church population, so I can do that. But we're far too easily pleased. Should I say years-sized? But it's like we can't only see the fulfillment of promises because we only see the small obstacles that we have in front of us. So we're too terrified. And I'm speaking of me, right? When I say we, I mean me, but I'm hoping you guys are the same spot on it. But we're terrified by the concept of jumping too fully into Jesus.

Because we're afraid we're going to miss out on something. And this is the part that I got to live out this week was with my kids. And I got to experience where God deals with me on, like, a barely basis. The word, like, chosen. In a split household, I'm not sure what it is. I'm giving you insight into it. Not too much, because I'm not giving you too much insight. But in a split household, we keep pretty good stuff around. I mean, we keep, like, the good cities. They're the best. They're the best. So, Ryan's like, he's going to have a list. Ryan's going to test with those spots as well. And my man has a beeline for the concert when he comes over. He's like, he's going to say hi. He just goes in, goes the things that I'm going to say.

I'm going to take on it because he's not here. But also, in the split household, we've been practicing a little more self-restraint when it comes to stamps and disease. Come on in here. Let's be honest. Let's just say, we're a work in progress, okay? It's not like it happens every night. But Corbin, my oldest son. So, if you don't know, Corbin is literally like a skip off the old block. We need to. We need to go out. But the other night, Corbin, my oldest son, he asked me for dessert after dinner. And I'm like, buddy, no. Like, you know, this new rule, we're only going to deserts on weekends or, like, special occasions. Like, we don't need dessert, like, on a Monday night when we're not going to do anything. And trust me, like, it's not what I want to do, right?

I don't want dessert on a Monday night, too. But I'm trying to teach them, like, I'm trying to teach them and myself to delay gratification, right? Because we don't need it. We want it, right? That's that distinction. The non-man is in there. Yeah, he's in there. All right? He's like, how's the pudding? You know? I'm a pudding, buddy. I know. I'm not just the low bar I found in the bottom. It's old. I mean, you guys, can't have it? It's at a date. No. Can I have an M&M? Just one. And, like, it's the opposite of, like, eat your food. It's like, just let me lick it. Just to have some small sense of satisfaction that I got one over on you. And the whole time I'm over here in this negotiation, I know that he did software practice coming up.

And I knew, obviously, he didn't, that if he participated well, if he worked hard, if people were scared to ask him to do, I would probably reward him. And we had some friends going, so I knew there was a dominion material that he didn't fully understand. And we were meeting some friends there, and we probably included them to try to get a fish and pass ice to wrap his office. But he didn't know this, right? And I wanted him to see that I wasn't against rewarding him, but that obedience and determination are the deciding factor. And it's supposed to be a celebratory thing, not an ordinary thing. And, too, because I couldn't worry about this, I just couldn't eat it. Like, he couldn't have settled for the honey butter, for the granola butter, for one measly in and in, right?

He couldn't have settled for that, just to have that taste of satisfaction that he got one over on his old nation. But he could have settled for the mud puddles, not knowing what the Father had to store him, and that's the plan. Are we, we feel this?

Or, he could put in the work, fully trusting that his Father would reward him. Great job, well done. Now, start with this idea. I think folks may have been saying, but I am so guilty of this, Bailey. Not fully jumping in, not fully abiding in the Father's master plan, because I'd rather have some small sense of gratification. Something I can hold on to. Something, an M&M, a mud puddle. Instead of the Father's intended reward for this long-committed father. First, real quick, let me not get off my seatbelt and answer the message. Come on, buddy. Right? Yes. Don't post a minute, I mean, honey. I want to drop this. If you're, if you're complaining about the state of our society, of our nation, of our world, I would first ask, have we, the church, have you, the believer, fully immersed yourself in the Father's plan for his new creation?

Or are we sitting here complaining about our lives, our society, our church, and our community, because we'd rather have a mud puddle than a holiday at the sea? So we complain about this life as hard and as terrible as it is, but we're, if you, if you drill down, we're too scared, we're too worried that we're missing out on something that we won't fully lean into the public plan. And we won't really see that about our lives, because we can't imagine the holiday. We can't imagine it, because we're, we're, we're too, we're too abused as a people by these weekly portions of that in front of us. I'd rather have, if I can see, some small sense of gratification and trust that the Father has a goal and a plan and a reward that would far exceed any family you or I can imagine.

All right, I'm going to move my soap off over here just in case I knew it later, but today we're going to be in John 4, starting in verse 43. So, I'd love for you to read along. And I, oh, I'm going to, I'm sorry. Yes, I know this. And at the end of two days, Jesus went on to Galilee. Jesus himself has said that the prophet is not honored in his home town. Yet the Galileans welcomed him for they had been in Jerusalem for the Passover celebration and had seen everything he did there. Someone stop here, quick. I'm going to stop here real quick, and not that it has anything to do with my extended message, but I want to talk about it. Matt gets on me all the time to me. It's funny. He's like, where were you going with this? I'm like, I'm going to go to Mattie.

So, when one becomes a follower of Jesus, especially in adulthood, can we agree that there's some obstacles that you need to overcome? I think it is. The beauty in that, the beauty in this story about John, that John's telling us about Jesus, is that even the Messiah, the God in front of him, who is famous, trying to overcome some of these same obstacles that you were around here. Why would Jesus say that even a prophet is not honored in his own home town? What do you think? Because they knew him, right? They saw Jesus throw up.

James, who is a half-brother of Jesus, who writes the book of James, and was the principal elder of the Church of Jerusalem, was Jesus' half-brother. Imagine being so confident that this person, this man is the God incarnate, this Christ Jesus, that your half-brother is convinced you're willing to die for that. Imagine that. Now, maybe, on the other hand, and I'm not identifying myself as a prophet, but I've got some baggage that I carry around my home town, right? I've lived here, I've grown up here, but you've been transformed, a new creation in Christ Jesus, been reborn of water and spirit. You've probably got some baggage around your home town, too. Especially if your lifestyle is changed to reflect Jesus. See, I've shared some of my past, and I won't drive you back down that road, but I've lived and grown up here my whole life.

And I've shared some dumb stuff, like, this guy up here today is not that guy. And I can't even blame it on being BC, right? I kind of shared some of that before. That's before Christ, for my history needs. I can only blame it on myself. See, this first section, I think, could be a sermon unto itself, but I'm going to stay on the side. Now, know that even the prophets have baggage in their own home town. You probably will, too, if your lifestyle starts reflecting Jesus instead of your flesh. Verse 46.

And as he traveled from Galilee and came to Cana, where he returned, watering the wine. See, God wasn't even dealing with people in church in Amnesia. Like, I want to remind you of these things. Two chapters ago, but I want to remind you of it. The day was a government official in nearby Capernaum, whose son was very sick.

When he heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went and begged Jesus to come to Capernaum to heal his son, who was about to die. Oh, there was something. Yeah, thank you. Now, we've just heard the warning that a prophet's not usually welcomed in their own home town, right? And if we could, I think we can all safely assume that if John is mentioning the way that it came up, that it probably ties into why the government official is asking for Jesus to raise help, right? He's heard, this official has heard of this Jesus, this miracle worker from Galilee. Maybe he can hear my son. I don't know if you're familiar, but we use certain types of language around him. And I love to tell them to unpack those. Not that I do it perfectly, but you kind of get my idea for it.

Have you, have we heard of us use the phrase, we want to be a kingdom outpost here in the city? Yeah. So hopefully you've heard that. And hopefully I can unpack my thoughts while we're around it. And it's good that we're all here, and then we're kind of on the same page, at least you're on the same page with me. But kingdom outposting is what Jesus is doing here. He's begun his ministering process at kingdom, and he's spreading his message throughout Israel. People are fearing of this rabbi changing the power that way. In our overview, we talked about Christ meeting the anointed one, right? Now, Jesus is not saying that's a brief meeting behind it, anointed one. And how Jesus was a better priest than Aaron, a better king than David. But on behalf of a little bit of this, he's also a better conqueror than Joshua.

The ideology behind a kingdom outpost language is that we're not in friendly territory. The word outpost behind enemy lines is winning grounds for our king with his war plan, right? The gospel, not the world's game plan. Because the broken world systems and the governments don't see our king's plan as realistic. But we know him as the greatest conqueror the world has ever seen. They say, how can loving your neighbor be as powerful as the sword? They say, how can loving your enemies and praying for those who persecute you be better than the S35 fighters yet? So do we trust in the promises and word of Jesus? Let me just kind of keep my shoes and what they're seen there. Are we more content with mudblows than things of the holiday at the sea? Are we convinced that the tired of the animals of the fallen world outweighs the instructions from our creator and kingdom?

I'm going to move on before we get this up and tell it. See, the official has heard of this Jesus and the miracle that he was on the kingdom. If this man can change water into wine, if this man can bend nature at his will, surely he can save my son. The official pleaded and begged for Jesus to come to confirm.

Because if Jesus couldn't deal with the official thoughts he'd have to do with, how would Jesus do the miracle? Jesus, I've got an idea in my head that you need to do. Come and do it. Verse 48, Jesus asked, Will you never believe in me unless you see miraculous signs and wonders? The official pleaded, Lord, please come before my little boy dies. And Jesus responds with, Will you ever believe in me unless you see miraculous signs and wonders? So the grief there for you is plural. And I love it because it's dull. Will you all ever believe unless you see miraculous signs and wonders? See, Jesus told him, Go back home. Your son will live. And the man believed what Jesus said and started home. To go back home, your son will live. And the man believed what Jesus said and started home. Now, I know we're all good churchmates here. Now, I don't want to sit with this for a minute.

He didn't negotiate. He didn't question. Jesus even hit him with a rhetorical question. Will you ever believe unless you see miraculous signs and wonders? Maybe this man's a lot like us. See, Jesus, there's often times I don't want to do it. Jesus just split the heavens open, love the world, see you, wipe away evil, sickness, death with the Sabbath finger. Do it. But Jesus didn't do that, did he? But Jesus called him, Go home. The son will live. No receipt. No rain check. No movie. All this man had was a declared statement from Jesus. Jesus said, Go. The man believed what Jesus said. He started home. Do we have to have faith in Jesus, even when it doesn't look like what we want? See, the official could have pleaded for a honey bunny, or a few women and for Jesus.

But he didn't. He goes to it for a mud pile. He trusted Jesus for the holiday. He trusted Jesus provided at the wedding of Tina. That he would provide for his son now. And that he would continue to provide it because he said he would. And so I'm convicted in this message, not by the miraculous act of Jesus. That's awesome.

So the man believed what Jesus said and started home. No questions, no communications. He was solely relying on Jesus and what he said. And he didn't have a history with Jesus. This stranger, this miracle worker from Galilee, who had turned water into wine, told me that my son would live, and I'm turning and walking in faith to what he said was true. That your son will live. Verse 51. While the man was on his way, some of the servants met him with the news that his son was alive and well. But he asked them, when the boy began to get better, they were five. Yesterday afternoon, yesterday afternoon at one o'clock, his fever suddenly disappeared. Then the father realized, well, this is the time Jesus had told him, your son will live. And he and his entire household believed in Jesus.

This was the second miraculous sign that Jesus did. Jesus did. It's all right. I don't know. I'm sorry. I don't know. This is the second miraculous sign that Jesus did. As of coming from GDA. Now, Roger said this in the overview of something that we've talked about in the study. But we, in its most basic form, may mean a cognitive understanding of something or an intellectual agreement. I can think we miss the most with that definition in the biblical sense. But I'll ask you, because I put an emphasis on my community of faith. When John records that he and his entire household believed in Jesus, do we think this father, this presumable husband, that him and his family agreed intellectually with Jesus? That's it. So we safely assume that he and his family had found a radical new life,

a radical regeneration, a radical new allegiance in this God in flesh, this Messiah, this miracle worker, this fusions. So this is a beautiful picture. I think John is painting for us and he draws back to the beginning of the sermon. I want to answer these two questions that we started with. And I want you to answer these two questions for yourselves. What is John's wanting us to believe about Jesus in this passage? These are some of my thoughts for the note papers. If you want to, like, email me problems with my thoughts, you can do that at Ryan and a cannabis community in God's church. That you'll never get told me. But I think John wants his readers to understand the power of Jesus. So last week we talked about Jesus' power over time and creation

with the turning of water into wine, even his power at that molecular level to do him. This passage, this week, I believe he's, John emphasizes Jesus' power over life and death and how faith and belief were interwoven into God's divine authority and coming. Third way, I have you. And I think this is important. Jesus, if you know this, Jesus doesn't heal every sick person in the nation's state of Israel during these ministries. He heals sons, but not all. I don't think your lack of faith or prayer or fasting didn't heal somebody. But that doesn't mean we don't beg to God for it anyway. I believe Jesus' healings are part of a bigger picture. I don't think they're part of this remedial, temporary healing, just for said. It's not on top of that. There's something that draws, there are something that draws the marginalized to him. But I think there's something even more than that.

It doesn't mean an official son probably died anyway, eventually. And we'd rather assume that. Yeah, I believe Jesus' healings during his ministry were more than just his temporary belief. In Jesus, this Messiah, what does John want us to realize? That he knows about the risen Savior that we don't. That this world, God's initial design was never supposed to be like this. Sickness, death. This was Adam's voice in our consequence. Because we were born into this humanity. For Jesus, this risen Messiah, offers us something else. We go back a chapter, a rebirth, an opportunity to be born again, but he tells Nicodemus in the previous chapter. See, Jesus' healings are a picture of what creation was supposed to be like. Perfect in harmony where God dwells with man. See, now God, through this Christ Jesus, has begun a new creation.

2 Corinthians 5, so that he says, this means that anyone who belongs to Christ has become a new person. The old life is gone. A new life has begun. And like we talk about all the time, we're in this tension. Between Jesus' healings and his first ministry, where his sickness and death are spoken away, and his second coming, where he's righted all the wrongs of humanity's first fall in the garden, where his enemies are his footstool, according to Hebrews 10, this place where sickness, dust, and the graves have no hold over him, where Revelation 21, 3 through 5 says, I've heard a loud shout from the throne, saying, look, God's home is now among his people. He will live with them, and they will be his people. God himself will be with them, and he will wipe every tear from their eyes,

and there will be no more death, or sorrow, or crying, or pain. All these things are gone forever. And the one sitting on the throne said, look, I am making everything new. And then he said to me, write this down, for what I tell you is trustworthy and true. So the tension is this life between gardens, between Eden and Genesis, and New Jerusalem and Revelation. The man believed what Jesus had said and started hunting. Do we have the faith to believe that Jesus will write all the Romans in this world, even if it's not the way you or I would do it? This is our story today. That the man says come, the Jesus says go, and he walks home. We have to have faith in Jesus, even when it might look different than what we want. Question two. Maybe, maybe.

Question two. How might this believing lead to life? The government official was never, was saying, in essence, heaven and Jesus. But his family. Think about that. Right? He and his entire household believed. Yes, he talked to Jesus. Yes, he saw this holy man. Yes, his son was healed. But where did the belief of his wife come from? Healed he, Jesus. Maybe she thought it was a coincidence that their son was healed. Maybe she thought her husband was in pain for chasing down this holy man, this Jewish rabbi in the desert, wandering the countryside. Authentic, transformative spaces and thefts. Especially when someone in town sees this and their life is radically transformed. So maybe he had more than one son. The Bible doesn't specify, but John does record that he and his entire household believed in Jesus.

Now in some, now in Jewish context, and I mean, there's a debate among scholars whether this, this official was Jewish or Roman that he worked for a parent angst hospital, no, but the chances are they weren't living in a suburban metropolis of Galilee with a nice yard and a single family home. They probably shared their home with more than just what we're used to in the American family. It might be grandma, it might be grandpa, and his uncles, children, nieces, and nephews. But John does record that he and his entire household believed in Jesus because of one man and his son's healing. So I don't think these people just intellectually agreed with Jesus. But I think what they saw and what they experienced changed their lives. Brothers and sisters, I can attest my actual feelings

that I've witnessed, that I've been a part of. But people can explain those away as coincidence. I'm not going to argue for them. But you know what they can't explain away as coincidence? A third big transformation of a person in the name of Jesus. It's hard to explain away as coincidence. Matt, I've finished the post of this last week and I've had to steal because I think it fits so well with the sermon. And I love saying words of wisdom from my brothers and sisters. It's not just something that's in the body of Christ. Matt writes, one of the biggest proofs outside the Bible of the reality of Christianity is children's lives. There are so many transformation claims. Transformation claims. Right? Lose 10,000 in 10 minutes. Sleep better in five days. Make 10 times the portfolio.

But rarely do we in this environment see true transformations. Today, which was last week, right? We get to see by us people making public statements that their lives have been changed by the message and teachings of Jesus. Wherever you are, God loves you and wants to be in a relationship with you. No judgment, no reservations, no taxes. What you decide to do as you write is up to you and God. Think so. Salvation and sanctification are two different things. Very connected. But you don't need to clean up to take a shower and you don't need to clean up that house before you start taking a drink out. It's the same thing with God. Come as you are and see what happens next. Ladies and gentlemen, if you're here today and you wouldn't consider yourself a follower of Jesus,

if you are a follower of Jesus, I'm going to leave you with this. Consider the cost. Following Jesus will probably cost you things, friends, relationships, egos, desires, even the disciples remembering that a prophet's not usually welcomed in their hometown. But I'll ask you, are you more contented living within the old creation that brings people to
