2023 Vision Sermon
2023-01-02
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k1clzDluMgM

Let us pray that we love you in this place this morning. We praise you, Lord, and we give you all the glory, all the honor. Come, please do this. Continue to be with us, but in the mercy, Lord, let us speak to our hearts. For us, Lord, let us pray that we thank you for the glory of Jesus Christ. We love you, Lord, and Jesus, and we thank you. Amen.

Let us pray, and I give you the exact proportions, because if he goes long, we agree in that time that it's possible that I go through it. You know, there's a million possibilities this morning, but I'm excited about this opportunity to dive into God's Word together, and it is a unique opportunity. We're kind of hopping into a new sermon series, mostly starting next week, and so I really just wanted to take this Sunday and take a look back at what God has done over the past year, and look forward to what God might be doing in our truth moving forward. I wanted to take an opportunity to test vision about what I believe and what I see God being in our truth moving forward. And at the same time, I recognize that there are many of you in the seats out there that have not been a part of either of us in the past, and so it's unique for you, because you're going to be hearing the story of what God did to kind of bring our churches together.

But I think it's an important concept, as we get excited about what God might do through our churches moving forward. I know there's people who are nearly in the room because we've been looking at the numbers, and our average attendance on Sundays as a new church is larger than if we took both of our churches' best Sundays and put them together. And so I know there are new people here. We're excited that you're here. And finally, at the same time, I realize that some of you in this room are going through so much right now, so much difficulty, so much pain, so much confusion, that even if you wanted to, you don't have the emotional or spiritual bandwidth to care about what we're doing as an organization. You're just trying to keep your head above the water.

And so, I didn't want to give this amazing, visionary, long-term future of our organization training without having some practical ramifications. And so, I'm going to kind of share big-picture visionary casting for our organization, and then ask them to come up and take some of those same principles and share them. For those of you that are like, hey, well, that's all great, wonderful, love to hear it for you all, but, like, I need some rebuilding in my own life. Like, we're going to talk about what it's going to look like for us to rebuild as a new church together, but I need to work on myself. I need God to show up and do some great things in my life before I can ever think about the organization that we're a part of. And so, that's kind of the direction for this morning.

Now, we have a visionary message for our church as a whole, but then that outline would seem to be saying not just what our church is, but us as individuals. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? That's the direction we have, or let them let me say yes to me. So, you know, that's the repeated joke, and so I don't have anything funny to say. I'll just say that every Sunday. So, let me pray, and then we'll hop in. Father, I thank you for all that you have done this past year to my church, in both of our churches. God, the announcement with Mike is just one microcosm of you taking the humility and faithfulness of your people and allowing them to be used far beyond anything. You're a God that you could ever ask and imagine.

Because you are a God that takes humble sacrifices and multiplies them. You're a God that takes a few rows and a couple of fifths and feeds 5,000 of them. So, God, we come to you today with a few levels and a couple of fifths and a speedy around us that's embarrassing. God, we ask that you would take our minuscule sacrifice, the little bit of skills and talents and abilities and obedience that we have to offer, and that you would multiply them. That we would be a spiritual kingdom outpost in our city with long-term acceptance, that we would introduce more people to Jesus. For your glory and for our good, in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So, last month, I sat down to write what is called a pastor's report. And a pastor's report is something that Matt and I do every month to our board.

Just kind of a one-page seat of what God's doing, what we've been involved in throughout the month. We've done accountability, a little bit of kind of separating and vision casting. And when I sat down to think about what I should write, I was thinking about where God had brought us as a church in the past and where I believed we were going to go in the future as a church. And God just kept drawing my money back to one of my favorite books in the Old Testament, and it's the book of Nehemiah. And in Nehemiah, I saw these patterns of God using Nehemiah and Israelite people to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. And I saw this pattern that I think really kind of is replicated in a lot of different organizations and individuals' lives when they think about rebuilding.

Like, Nehemiah has these principles for rebuilding that I think we can use as an organization as we seek to rebuild. And we as individuals, we can take those same principles and use them as we think about rebuilding. These are principles. It's important that we realize these are principles and like promises. Because what happens oftentimes is when we flip to books of the Bible in the Old Testament or the Proverbs, wisdom literature, oftentimes we read them as if they're promises written specifically to us. When in reality, they're history or principles that were written broadly. And we try to apply them like they're promises to us. And so what I don't want you to hear is that if we apply these principles, that our success is going to be perfect. It's promised by God. These are just wise principles that I believe if we will put to practice as in a church,

and if you will put them to practice in your individual lives, that God might do some things through that. Does that make sense? All right. So before we hop into the principles, let me give you a quick first-notes version of Nehemiah. This is a super condensed first-notes version because we don't have a lot of time. Nehemiah is one of God's chosen people at a time when God's people were far from their calling as a nation. They've been drawn out of the nation and put into captivity for hundreds of years, and they were about as far away from success as they could possibly be. And yet, in that time, God began to move in light of some of the prophecies that he had made through his prophets. He said that the nation of Israel was going to be restored,

and God began to do some miraculous things through some secular kings. Secular kings were saying, you go back to your nation. Here, take money, take resources, and you go back, and you honor the things that your God has called you to do. God began to do miraculous things that he's used individuals throughout that story to come alongside and to be obedient to those things. And so, again, in that context, it's important to realize that any time you're doing anything for God, there's this prophecy where God's pretty much doing it miraculously showing up. He's moving in and through all of these opportunities, and yet he calls us to come alongside him to partner with him in what he's doing. And that's what we see in the book of Ezra and Nehemiah. These people, God's people, come alongside what God is doing,

and they begin to reestablish the community of Israel. So they begin to rebuild the temple in Jerusalem, and they begin to rebuild the walls around Jerusalem. And Nehemiah is an individual who feels called to participate in this process. And also, he's going to become one of the key leaders that organizes the rebuilding of the wall. And it's with that context that we see these four principles lived out through Nehemiah. Principle number one for faithful rebuilding. We're going to be about rebuilding God's plan for our life. His plan for our church faithfully. I would say this. Number one is agreeing with God. Nehemiah chapter 1, starting in verse 8. Nehemiah hears that the things are not going well for Jerusalem, and his heart is broken over, and he says this. He prays to God in verse 8.

He says, please remember what you told your servants, Moses. If you are unfaithful to me, I will scow you among the nations. But if you return to me, and obey my commands, and live by them, then even if you are exiled to the ends of the earth, I will bring you back to the place that I have chosen for my name to be honored. So Nehemiah hears that things aren't going the way that they should be going for the nation of Israel. And he prays to God. He says, God, remember what you said to your servant Moses. You said that we would be scattered if we disobeyed, but if we return to you, you would be faithful. No matter how far, no matter how much we've messed up, no matter how far we've gone, you would bring us back to yourself.

Nehemiah has this burden, this prayer of repentance, where he agrees with the promises of God, with the things of God. He confesses his own sin, the way that he has participated in the rebellion that led them into captivity. I think this principle is clearly articulated through the leadership of our churches. Both of our churches kind of found ourselves in situations where we had to be internally associated. Like, we know that the mission of the church in the New Testament is the Great Commission. We are to go out and to make disciples of all nations. We are to be externally focused. And we both found ourselves in circumstances where we had to be internally focused. And our leadership said, this is necessary, but we can't stay here. We can't get comfortable in a place where we're internally focused.

How can we, how can we look for ways to agree with God and find ways for God to do some miraculous things for us? I think it's in that process we begin to pray and God begin to move and introduce people to other people. And we begin to say, what if, what if we're going to be better together in a church than separate? And so God, because of our agreement with Him and saying, we need to be externally focused. Right now we're internally focused and it's not okay to stay there. We need to be externally focused and we begin to agree with God. May we as individuals, may we never lose sight of God's purposes for His church. May we never become comfortable just going to church. By doing the things that we've always done.

This is not just as God. When we get comfortable, when we just set boxes and go through patterns and do the things that we've always done. May we be externally focused. May we agree with the things of God, even when it calls us to obedience into things that are uncomfortable. The things that are difficult. The things that are challenging for us. May we be willing to be courageous. I love what Miles from the delegation came in this interview in that mile about the merger. And he said, thanks for being courageous. So there's a ton of churches that have opportunities like this that I know of that, you know, just be too hard. They'd be too difficult for them to even step out and do something that's wild. And you guys were courageous. We as a church, we've been courageous to agree with God.

And not only to agree with God, but to do the next thing, to take the first step. So this is, Nehemiah doesn't just agree with God. He doesn't just confess, protest, pray, and say, God, I want you to do the thing you said you were going to do. Nehemiah says, I'm going to participate in this process. So not only does he repent you and pray and say, God, I want you to do something miraculous. But he takes the first step. Nehemiah chapter 2, after his prayer of confession, verse 1, it says, Sounds like a cool job, I think, unless somebody doesn't like the king, then all of a sudden it's the worst job on the planet. And so, I had never before appeared sad in the king's presence. And so the king asked me, why are you looking so sad?

You don't look sick to me. You must be deeply troubled. The king was very concerned if Nehemiah was sick or not, because Nehemiah had the first sip of wine. So, if he was sick, somebody was trying to kill him. He was like, I don't think you're sick. I think you're sad. And Nehemiah became terrified, and he replied, long live the king. How can I not be sad? So the city where my ancestors are buried is in ruins, and the gates have been destroyed by fire. And the king asked, well, how can I help you? Listen to Nehemiah. He says, with a prayer to the God of heaven. He knew that this was going to be a difficult thing for him to do. He's stepping out and said, this will be a prayer to the God of heaven.

I replied, if it pleases the king, which you are pleased with me, and so send me to Judah to rebuild the city where my ancestors are buried. The king and the queen sitting beside him asked, how long will you be gone? And when will you return? After I told him how long I will be gone, the king agreed to my request. So Nehemiah says, when he agrees with God, he confesses, he believes what God wants to do in the people of Israel. But then he takes the first step of asking them. So you agree with God is only step one, and this is often the only step that many of us ever take. We agree with God. We confess and repent, and then we do nothing about it. We get complacent. He says, godly obedience is far more difficult than godly agreement.

I wonder if some of the most fruitful mainstreams that God's ever called us to plant or to start died between agreeing and taking the first step of asking. I wonder how many times God's called us as an organization, as an individual, into obedience. And so we agreed with him, and we knew that he wanted us to do something in and through us, that he wanted us to ease our laws and our faith, the little sacrifice that we have. And then we agreed with him, and then we got comfortable. We didn't do anything about it. Mercy's parents were here over Christmas, and we were reflecting on stories that a child had as we're about to have our first. We're trying to imagine what a child might be like, based on the music here and the music here.

Yes, good luck. Really, really good luck. And her mom said, you know, Marissa was, she would say no all day long, regardless of what she was actually doing. The middle child, the classic middle child, she would yes me to death, but they never actually do it. And so she had the appearance of being this, like, awesome child, right? She was always, yes, mom, yes, mom, yes, mom. But if she actually paid attention to her solace and she didn't do anything about it, how often are we as Christians like that? Yes, God, yes, God, yes, God. But then when it takes the time to actually step out and say, God, how often are we that person that just yes is God to them, but doesn't do anything about it? Step one is to agree with God.

Step two is to take us to, and I believe our church is merging as a result of the first two steps in this process. Both of our churches, we were discontent with being inward focused, and our leadership led us to take difficult steps. And we've taken more than one. We've taken a few really difficult steps, and it's because of your humility and your faithfulness and your willingness to listen to God and step out and take action, even if you weren't 100% sure if it was going to lead to the things that you wanted it to lead to. And we've seen God move in these principles of rebuilding, and we've agreed that God was taking steps of action, and it's led to a fruitful new church beginning. And we continue to be a church full of individuals who aren't willing to just be comfortable to just agree with God, but is that we take action courageously.

And we're sensing God leading us. This is an excellent foundation for the church to be worked on individuals, and we pray like it depends on God, and we ask like it depends on others. Not just to agree with God, but to take steps of action. And the third principle is to make good plans. Nehemiah doesn't just take action, but he thinks about it. He's thoughtful. He has a point of what it's going to look like for him to be successful in this ministry that God is calling him to. In verse 7. I told the king, if it pleases the king, let me have letters addressed to the governors of the province west of the Euphrates River, instructing him to let me travel safely through the territories on my way to Junda. And please give me a letter addressed to Asas, the manager of the king's forest, instructing him to give me attendance.

And only is he asking the king to let him have an extended period coming off, but he's saying, also, give me all of the materials that I'm going to need to make this packing. I will need it to make beans for the gates of the temple, for the fortress, for the city laws, for the house, for myself, and retain grace with these requests, because the gracious hand of God is on it. These are the first two principles of agreeing with God and taking the first step that we've been as a place. And now where we're headed is, this is the time where we need to make good plans. We're treating this, I'm treating this kind of like a hybrid of a church plan. Because the reality is, if you look around, we have a building, a room full of people, technology to live stream, like we kind of look like a semi-grown-up church.

But if you spend any time with us at all, you'll realize that there's a lot of things that I haven't done yet. There's a lot of things that need to be built. There's a lot of ministry strategies and philosophies that need to be put together. And so we really are rebuilding. We've seen God move. We've seen success. But now it's time for us to make plans, to strategize. How can we best steward the resources that God has given us?

And I think as we enter into this phase, these making good plans, we can expect a few things. Some things that Nehemiah saw as he made good plans and took out a few of what we did. He saw both momentum and opposition. Nehemiah began to see God do miraculous things. The wall was coming together far faster than they could ever have imagined. And yet any of the momentum, anything is going right and things happening because God was faithful to the nation of Israel, opposition arose, both from inside and outside the church. And the large chunk of the rest of Nehemiah is him adjusting his plans according to the success that they're having and according to the opposition that's coming from both inside and outside. I think it's important that we, as a priest, we make good plans, that we're flexible, that we're willing to respond to what God is doing in an organization.

So I put together, Matt and I also worked really hard on this calendar, this planning calendar. And what it is, is it's us kind of explaining when we're going to put organizational muscle behind certain things. If we're a hybrid service point, we need to develop certain strategies, certain ministry philosophies. Some of you don't care about any of these learning words, but some of you do. So if you care, pay attention. If you don't, take five minutes off and get ready for Matt to tell you how you can change your lives tomorrow. That'd be great. So these are, this is the times in which we're going to kind of, as an organization, put our muscle behind certain things. And you cannot see that every way when I was just a player. I'll explain it to you.

This does not mean that we're only going to do these things or we're not going to do anything else. This just means, this is when we as an organization are going to work to build strategies and structures around these things. First and foremost, we're going to start a small group's ministry at the end of the month of January and into February. But we want to do this because we believe the church is going to be a place that we come to where it is a group of people that we're connected with. We're going to have to be connected in relationship before we can ever go out and serve our community. So we're going to build relationships with one another and living rooms and classrooms and bars and Panera goods and all kinds of places. We're going to meet.

We're going to get together. We're going to build relationships that allow us to be obedient to what God's calling us to do. After that, we're going to work on our mission and our vision and our practices. We're going to have common language around what we're doing. The thing that we did in the merge process is we figured out that there was a lot of commonality between favor streets and grace communities. But then, just like when people who are dating and get engaged, they have a lot of things in common when they move into each other's house. We realized that the things that they thought they had in common weren't as in common as they really thought they were. And so it's important for us, we have similar organizations, but it's important for us to kind of create our new pathway forward as one new organization.

And we have common language. And so we'll do that in March and April. We'll figure out how to become members and we'll be able to hold one another accountable to the things that God is doing. And next, we'll tackle discipleship because it's important that the people that God is bringing to our church, so that they know what it means to be obedient to Jesus, that they are equipped to do the work of the ministry. Welcome and assimilation, these are internal language things that you might not know, but we just want people who come here for the first time to feel welcome. We want them to know how they can be a part of our church. Whether they're a follower of Jesus yet or not, we want to make sure that they feel welcome and they can assimilate.

We want to have all of our systems in place that when we reach out to our community, this doesn't mean we're not going to do any outreach until September, this is organizational weight. So, we're not a season of making good plans. These plans may change, but we believe this is the best strategy for us to transition from a new church to an established organization of systems and structures that will help us best reach in the cycle of our community. As we've seen the first screen that made me run, so we've seen momentum. We've seen the community grow, new people getting connected baptisms, and outreach opportunities like housing the homeless that we never would have been able to do on our own. So, I'm asking for patience and flexibility. I'm asking you to pray for our church and our community and communicate openly and honestly.

And here's a disclaimer. The only thing you know, but Nehemiah, not Jesus. So, we often read the Old Testament. We read these heroes of our faith. And we, like, white-loss all of their failures. Nehemiah mess up a bunch. Like, he did a lot of bad things. He prayed some prayers where you're like, are you starting to know God?

And so, I share that with you because here's the reality. I'm not God. I don't know if you guys have figured that out yet. Amen. Our leadership is going to fail. We are going to make mistakes. We are just individuals who are following a call to God. Do not put godly leaders on the place for you. Nehemiah failed throughout this process, and so will I, and so will Michelle, and so will Jonathan, and so will Matt, and so will our leadership team. Don't put your hope in our leadership. Don't put your hope in our ministry philosophies and our strategies and the things that we develop. Keep your eyes on Jesus. Agree with him. Take steps of obedience towards him. Make good plans that you think he's going to use to grow his kingdom. And be flexible with those plans because sometimes we do things that we think God's calling us to do, and it's really just what we want.

So, let's be flexible, obedient. Let's listen to God and what he's doing as we make our plans. And finally, the fourth principle was, handle success with humility. See, Nehemiah and the Israelites, they saw God do some incredible things. This wall was actually built in 52 days. It's very clear in the way that the book was written, that this was a more miraculous thing. There's no way any group of people could have rebuilt this wall in 52 days, but God showed up and did the impossible. And not long after seeing God do the impossible, it's yet again that the Israelite people start to do so badly. It's yet again that they start to rebuild. Nehemiah in chapter 13, I don't want to have time to sit over with you. You can go read it yourself. Nehemiah comes back.

He goes to the king for a while, and he comes back to check on all the things that are happening in Israel. He's walking around the walls, and they're just disobedience after disobedience, after rebellion after disobedience. And he's like, we just saw God show up. We just saw God do the miraculous. How often is this true of our losses? How rebellious are we as a people? How easily we let go of the abundant life that God is providing for us in order to submit to a law that didn't enhance for us. I think we clearly see these patterns throughout the Scripture, throughout the history of the message of Israel, throughout the history of the church, and throughout our individual lives. We agree with God. We take action. We make good plans. We see victory and freedom that comes from all day to God, and we must forget the source of the success.

Church, we've seen God do some incredible things in other church in just a few months. And I believe he wants to set us up as a long-term kingdom outposts in this city. However, all of that can go away if we lose sight of the one who's gotten us here in the first place. All of that can go away if we get pride for and arrogant about the things that we're doing. All of that can go away if we forget that the church isn't just our laws. Because there are churches all over the city that are doing obedient things for God, that are the spirit of the kingdom of God's work. May we be partners with them. May we not just think that we're offering them, but we realize that God is the one that's working in and through all of the churches of our city.

May we be obedient to the thing that he's calling us to. May we be so full of humble individuals who know why we're here and how we got here to begin with. May we realize that God's work and experience is so much bigger than just our local church. May we have an attitude of humility no matter how God chooses to use us. I'm going to pray for our church and then it's going to come up and serve some practical applications for us as an individual. Father, may we be a church. I guess I just agree with you because I take steps of obedience. And God, as we take steps of obedience, may we produce what I'm going to contribute to Jesus' fruits. And may we hang with our fruit with humility for your glory, Lord, and Jesus' name of the name of the name of the name of the name of Jesus.

Christo-centric. It's about Jesus. Humility. We need to be humble. And they participate in which the rest of the name of the name of Christ. We're on these walls. In Newchester, my book is right here.

So, I want to, I feel glad, well done, but I think Ryan is right that some of us may be at a place where we're like, I love it, but, you know, I'm not sure I'm going to make fun. And, um, I'm just thinking about it. A sense of distance. So, I'd like to back up to two verses in Nehemiah before the verses that Ryan read about agreeing with God. We do need to agree with God. But the place to begin in agreeing with God is not just saying who he is, but recognizing who we're not. Verse 6. Nehemiah, oh, chapter 1, verse 6. Nehemiah hears us going on. He resonates with it. He understands it. And he says to God, do prayer. Let your ears be attentive and your eyes open to hear the prayer.

Your servant is turned before you. Day and night for the servants, the people of Israel. I confess the things that you Israelite, including myself and my father's family who's committed against you. We have acted wickedly toward you. We have not obeyed between the names of the trees and laws you gave your servant Moses. And anybody who should remember these types of Jesus. So I'd like to walk us through that process. Because I don't know if anything... Let me say it this way. There is abundant forgiveness between them. Abundant forgiveness between them. I don't see anywhere in the Scripture where there is any forgiveness for excuse. We take truth to God. And God in his abundant grace and mercy transforms us. I'm going to read a quote from Judas Hagan. He's a creative writing professor and spiritual formation teacher.

He writes this. The first and foundational kingdom values that Jesus imparted is that the people who own the kingdom, the people through whom the gifts come and through whom its powers arise, are not assigning people of faith who appear flawless and without need. No. The kingdom is owned by him. And the power comes to those who know they don't measure up. To those who are willing to embrace weakness. To people who intimately understand their begging dependence upon and merciful to the truth. I'd like to do this with just a quick children's story. Some of you may be familiar with C.S. Lewis. He wrote a series of children's books, Conflict of Narnia, and in one of them, The Void of the Dawnsetter, he tells a story about Eustace. VMI got it right. He heard it, recognized it, and he retent it.

Many of us don't get it quite that right. And Eustace, in this allegory that C.S. Lewis writes of the children's story, is kind of a depiction of common humanity. Eustace is this stubborn boy. He is a self-impressed young man. He is an angry person. He creates problems in his environment, in his context. And if we walk through the account of Eustace going over to the dragon's wire, falling in love with the dragon's wire, putting on the bracelet from the dragon's wire, falling asleep on the treasure, dreaming dreams of a dragon, he then wakes up as a dragon. At first, he likes it. He's strong. He's powerful. People fear him. People respect him. They do what he says. And he loves it. He quickly realizes that it also brings a lot of loneliness. You know, most of us, when we come to God with our own dysfunctional behavior,

whatever it is, when we come to God with this, he studies them. I'm not talking about just the thing that occurs every now and then, but we're always the studying thing, the thing that you're sticking to her to being, sticking to her to being, sticking to her to being, sticking to her to being, sticking to her to being, sticking to her to being. And yet, it keeps coming back. And it keeps coming back. For many of us, we begin in this process-like usage, where we resist wanting to even admit or deal with our own dysfunction. We come up with excuses. You ever hear the statement, we think that I'll just wait just a bit too much? No, we recognize it, but we won't admit it. We see that the power of the human mind to deceive itself is unfathomable.

It's a lot. And the truth is that much of our sinful behavior, our dysfunctional behaviors, is learned as a coping mechanism to a broken environment. And maybe as a child or as a young adult, it works. Unfortunately, when a screaming kid, it gets the attention of his mother and the loving, nurturing hands of his mother and learns that when you don't feel loved or cared for, you scream. It works when you're one. It doesn't work when you're 31. And yet, we adopt these conclusions, these activities, these studying schemes in our own life. And we do it because it works.

It's no longer working anymore, but we hope so. And we're resisting. Use this way to resist you. But eventually, he came to this place of recognition. He admitted his own dysfunction, but really had no clue how to get under it. He was a dragon. He didn't want to be a dragon. Believed there was a better way, but he had no idea what that was like. And then he went to step three and kind of stage three, and it's the failure of self-help. He decides that he has to peel the dragon's skin off of his body. And so he cuts and he peels the skin off. And what did he find underneath? More dragon skin. And so he cuts and he peels off. And what did he find? More dragon skin. But it's the histology of self-human.

Of thinking somehow that if I just keep right, get it right, think right, go to the right church, read the right version of the Bible, do the right thing, somehow I can earn my way, I can continue to peel back all of this skin, and eventually I'll be fine. But it's a philosophy, folks. See, it's also this wonderful place where if only the lion looks at him and says, you will have to let me undress you. It's the wind and the fear. The lion is the face figure in the sound of the Lord. And the Christ says, you're out of line. It's almost undress you. And then you used to keep the voice to hear it. The very first care he made was so deep that I thought it had come right through my heart.

And when he began pouring the skin off, he felt worse than anything I've ever thought. The only thing that made me able to bear it was just the pleasure of feeling that doesn't feel it. I don't know if I want to be alone. It's a place that remains. I want to be alone for skin. It's not being requested in general. Let me give you six original points. It goes even really quickly. If you have a door come, an animal door come, I'm going to actually ask you, mentally, as I speak to them, to do the means, right? But I'm also going to give you some homework. Someone said to me before service, I said something about, you know, sending you four, six of those, and insert, and you can do this. And they said, oh, homework. I said, well, no, you can ignore that. I said, you just want to come to church and go and transform it.

You know, you know, in church, there's a lot of hearing. And hearing is good. But to learn something, you don't just hear, you've got to see. And the reality is, most true, an explanation, most true incorporation of anything is not just hearing, seeing, but it's the actual doing. It's the actual doing. And in fact, James says that confess your fault, things, the functional behavior, confess it to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. I mean, you go to God for forgiveness. But if you let the skin peel off, somehow, in this process, that confesses one another, the spirit of God's ways up and there's one another that happens. But the only given to you will accept it. Number one, recognition. What Nehemiah did really well. He recognized his own sin,

the sins of the people, he owned them, and he confessed them. By the way, I encourage you when you confess it. No one must be that. Be specific. You're not just the, oh, Lord, for all that I've done and don't even realize it. No, no, no. The Lord for you. If I don't encourage you right now, is there something that God's cousin's on your heart? That the son is saying? The anger that just keeps coming out and wounding people around you? The self-feeding? The alcohol? The food? The work? Wraithing from his spirituality? Have some people take religion and use it as self-feeding rather than as a means of grace to go to God? Recognize. That's the beginning of that. Number two, repent. Now, repent means, this means turn away. But here again, you're recognizing with him

to repent. Specifically, what are you turning from and food? What does it look like? When Ryan put the slide up of missing vision, when you put practices? I am so tired of sitting with people who have core values who don't have any idea about doing the practice. Don't have core practices. So, here again, recognize. And repent. What specifically am I turning from? I found that they're done. So, start constantly thinking. Number three, renounce. Renounce any demonic signs that have taken place in your life. You know, Trenton's two favorite lies are, one, that there is a demon under every tree and rock and chair. That is all demonic. And his other favorite lie is that there's nothing demonic. There's nothing to do with that. And they're both lies. And so, I promise you that if you have a besetting sin,

there is a demonic activity trying to keep you in that sin. And if you have power, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world, you have power to renounce it. And so, it's a step of repentance. It's one of your eyes. Renounce. Staten, you have no place to it. You've been defeated to speak truth. Truth always wins over his life. So, renounce. Number four, here's the big one, folks. Receive. And it's just from that I'm so sorry and so somebody and so somebody and so sorry. I said, we're going to take communion in a little bit. And communion, you know, I also will say that we don't take communion. We receive communion. We receive the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ through the broken body and of his blood.

We receive the transformation of the world. Look, that's what we do to position him for his powerful transformation in the world. in Nehemiah, it was the external, which demonic, you can take an icon of, or the internal, which is our own in the body of the sins, or in the body of the gifts. That receives forgiveness that is promised in Christ. And number five, and here's a big one, it's really kind of Ryan's walk out to the group, the people of God, you know, the planning and all that kind of stuff. How do you say for ourselves to get repentance that sticks, that works, that stays? The fifth part is realign. Realign your life. If I'm coming from that, what does this look like? If I'm not doing this, what am I doing instead? How am I behaving instead?

How am I focusing instead? What am I thinking instead? What am I saying? Some of you might be familiar with Elizabeth Kugler-Ross who talked about the five stages of banning. And I know that was back in the 60s and when you learned a lot, it's not a linear progression and it's this whole sense of denial and anger and bargaining and depression and acceptance. Do you know that those same steps are full dice to you on a regular basis? Anyone who's ever ever need a boundary question? Know a boundary question? You know, the rule of five is boundary questions. A boundary pastor will try five different ways to crash the boundary that you have set. And once you get past those five ways that they try to get to crash the boundary that you have set,

they won't believe the boundary that you have to be able. So you have to hold that boundary. Nehemiah didn't. Nehemiah, when the son was established the Sabbath again. Nehemiah first, they were coming into Jerusalem and selling stuff on the Sabbath and they weren't supposed to and so first he rebuked the sellers next to in front of the leaders then he locked to the gates then he sent guards at the locked gates and then there were still people who broke the boundary came and showed up and to those who rebuked the sellers and consulted them. He threatened them. So too is our soul. Our soul when we realign it's going to go five different ways.

we hold on to the grace of God the goodness of God the power of God to get through. And then last of all we rejoice. The bone was going to do this in the time of rejoicing as we're doing communion as we're receiving communion I think communion should bring this incredible to the light of rejoicing. Have you recognized this thing? Have you prayed from it? Have you reknownst any demonic input? You know God can hear you talking to him while I'm speaking to you. That's kind of cool. As you're not getting the most stronghold and you receive this grace and forgiveness and you're allowing the spirit of God to help you realign your life in a way that holds the strongholds of God while you're the strongholds of communion. This is done in you. I'm going to invite you

to rejoice in the shed blood and the broken body of our lives. And by the way of your homework Jesus is a trusted thing. Find a trusted thing and just don't know how to feel here in your repentant confession that you might be healed. Don't do it with anyone. A trusted brother of Jesus. A trusted Christian family. On the night that Jesus was to say before he did his brother and he broke it and he did his union. He took a cup and he did his union. We're going to accept that we can that union in our own life and release his grace from his name and the symbols of all his bread and the symbols of Jesus. Wine. And it was Jesus' peace. I'm going to ask this group for those who want to come.

If you can come forward in this row and go back that row you guys if you can come forward or go backwards in this row back to that back table and then back coming down. If you guys can go backwards and then come back down this and then if you guys can come forward here and then back that's over. Last time I didn't give you directions like four weeks ago and it worked beautifully and I said you know just go do it and it didn't work beautifully. So I'm like
