We Are the Church: Our Mission
2023-07-17
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D09Nan35vZ0

So we're really going to talk about our mission beyond the walls today. In the covenant that we've gone over the last month, we've talked about the Word of God, we rely on it, we've talked about self-instincts, it's essential, we've talked about the church, the importance of the local body, and now we're moving to the last sentence in our covenant, and it's this, it's talking, right before it says that with my finances and my time and my spiritual gifts, that I contribute to the church, and what I want to unpack is the phrase, as it spreads, the kingdom of God in Winchester and beyond. Now Ryan reminded me to tell people, and I think he's right, that everything we do is ministry. We built a rock wall, and that's ministry. Why? Because we built the rock wall,

and some kid's going to come in and think that's really cool, and he's going to make a friend, and he's going to wear himself out, and then he'll be, like, quiet enough that he can listen to what Michelle has to share, and then maybe he'll come back a second time, and then he'll bring a friend a third time, and bring his parents, and the parents will experience the Spirit of God in worship as the team other than Donovan leads them in worship. And so it's ministry. I get that. All that I have, all my money, everything is, it's for God. I get that. It's kind of like when Laura and I were called to me from Ohio to, I'm sorry, from Wisconsin to Aspen, Ohio. We had a house to sell. We had our dream house to sell, and it didn't go so well.

It took us, like, six and a half years to sell our house. Yeah, it was, like, during that 08, 09, 10 time frame, you know? And at the end of it, we lost a lot of money on it. And Lori was going to tell me that was, Matt, I told you, get over it. Get over it. My phrase was, you know, I don't understand why the Lord would want to spend his money that way. But it's his, right? And having said that, while everything is God's, all that we do is ministry, there's still a reality that I come with. There's still a reality that all time is for God, but I set aside private, quiet time with God on a daily basis. Because there's something about setting a time, setting aside special time for a focus.

And so today, while all we do is ministry, I want to focus on the ministry that we have chosen to collectively do that is outside our walls. It's ministry that is not paying a pastor's salary. It's not paying for curriculum for discipleship for our kids. It's not paying for the air conditioning of heat. It's not paying for anything that is focused on us, but it is targeted outside of us. And I want to tell you how we do that. Okay. To do that, let me start by getting a biblical foundation. I'm going to do it really quick. I'll go through four or five different verses, from different authors. This one is Paul, who's writing to Titus. Remember, this is the end of his life, end of Paul's ministry, and he's passing on what he's done to other people who will continue the journey.

And to ask Titus, our people must learn to devote themselves to doing what is good in order to provide for urgent needs and not live unproductive lives. Paul is saying, hey, Pastor Titus, make sure that all of our people understand that the definition of productive life is being able to give to the needy. Now, I realize that organizations define productivity in different ways. But in the kingdom's economy, this verse is telling us that it's critical that our people learn to do what's good. And in doing the good, they will provide for urgent needs. And in providing for urgent needs, it will mean they will not live an unproductive life. In other words, in the kingdom, productivity is not so much about what I gain as it is about what I give. Okay, next verse, James 1, 27.

Religion that is good, I'm sorry, religion that God our Father accepts as pure and flawless as his, to look after orphans and widows in their distress, to keep oneself from being polluted by the world. So, yes, you know, help people not to be watching pornography. Make sure they're not doing stuff that is destructive to themselves. Don't be polluted by the world. But more than that, it's not just what God's called us away from, but what God's called us to. And part of that needs to be caring for the marginalized moment. Psalm 140. I know that the Lord secures justice to the poor and upholds the cause of the needy. I can tell you, every time I hear someone say, God bless America, I want to encourage them to, every time they say, God bless America,

well, at least a few times you say, America bless God. Can you say, America bless God? Again, it's not just this inward focus, but it is this outward focus. You want to be on the Lord's side? I mean, I want to be on the Lord's side. Well, the Lord's side is on the side of the poor and those who need justice. That's a five plus a month. So, let's, yeah. And this biblical foundation drives what I'm going to be talking about today. Matthew 28, 19, therefore go and make disciples of all nations. I've heard Ryan saying, I can never remember what is vision or mission. Is it vision, is every church's vision or every church's mission to do some contextualizing vision of this? Yeah, which one is it? Okay, thank you. So, our mission is a contextualized version of this.

And I agree, we can contextualize it, but it's basically this. It's the Great Commission, and there's a few verses after that about how we go about doing it. But it's about them. It's about other than us. And so, today I want to unpack the other than us part of our collective poem. And then last one, and I saw this because I had the privilege of being in the room, and Dr. Hogue, Gary Hogue, who is often referred to as a generosity monk, was teaching on this passage. And for those of you who know Ben Whitterington, Ben Whitterington was in the room, Ph.D. Wooden Testament at Asbury. And when Dr. Hogue presented his take of this, I remember Ben saying, I mean, he was like really tense with it. And then he said, you know, I haven't heard that before.

And then he said, and what really shocked me is not that I haven't heard it before, because I hear a lot of things I haven't heard before, but it actually fits the text. So what Gary Hogue said is that we often think this verse is saying, don't be a thief. But what Hogue says, actually, the point that Paul is making here is that we are to do something with our hands so that we may have something to give to those who are in need, and those who will not work to be able to give to those who are in need are in fact robbing from God. I mean, that takes a whole new twist, because, you know, if you just say, stop stealing, well, then it's like, well, it's all those people. This verse is for them.

But if you realize, maybe this is preaching to us. Okay, I'm going to leave that Biblical foundation up, that verse, and then I'm going to go through some principles. So here at Kansas Community Church, we have at least five principles that kind of guide us, five guidelines that guide us in how we do ministry outside of ourselves, and I want you to be familiar with those. Number one, at least 10% of our general budget, notice I said at least, at least 10% of our general budget goes to ministry, to stuff the things, the people outside of us. So you put a dollar in the place. Oh, we're not a place here. Okay, we put a dollar back there. You punch a button on your phone and put a dollar into our coffers. And in 10 cents of that, it's so fast, though, goes to minister to people outside of us.

Okay, that's principle one. Principle two, we have chosen to prioritize making a larger impact than fewer ministries. I know there are some churches who will have, you know, 50 missionaries, and they give 100 bucks to all 50 missionaries, and they have their wall, and we pray, and we're not saying, that's wrong. That's great. That's awesome. That's not how we've chosen to do it. We've chosen to say, let's hone in on a few ministries and make as large of an impact as we can. And by the way, this is tailored to some of the other priorities I'm going to give, so you'll understand why. Number three, decisions on those impacts that we do are pushed down to the lowest appropriate level possible. I had no idea what Mike's dad and his team going to the ranch was doing until yesterday when I asked him.

Our board didn't decide what they were doing. We have a philosophy of ministry that says if you have responsibility, you have authority. You know, although Ryan and I need to make sure that, you know, it's not, like, ungodly, ultimately we're putting people in the right position so they can make those decisions, and so we push those decisions down as much as possible. In fact, the three entities that we have chosen were brought to us by the people that we have asked who care about this. And the board said, yeah, that makes sense. That's just who we are. Okay. So, number four, we prioritize relational equity. In other words, we don't want to just send a check, we want to go with a check. We want to be involved in some way. We want to not just do the checkbook of Jesus, but the hands and feet of Jesus as well.

And so we work with that. Just to tell you a quick story, there are some organizations who prioritize the mission's work, the lowest overhead possible, and I get that. That is not our priority. And here's a story of why. So, I used to oversee missionaries in Southern Africa. Mozambique was one of the countries that I, that I oversee our missionaries and work with our national church there, and in, Mozambique is one of the five poorest countries in the world. I mean, it's always in the bottom of the world, it leads sometimes to the poorest, to the second poorest, to the fourth poorest, to the second, it depends on the year. It depends on the larger history. While I was working there, 2019, IDAS came through, it was a cyclone with a category four, it hit the middle of the country.

Bayra, which is the capital, was literally annihilated. I mean, it almost didn't exist. The crops were destroyed, the houses were destroyed, cholera went rampant because of all the standing water, and we began to respond. And then only a month later, so that was on March 4th, and then April 21st, 10th, which was the largest cyclone ever on record to hit Mozambique, hit Mozambique. And this time, it hit that middle section, but it primarily hit the northern section. And while Mozambique is no longer in a civil war, there's still armed insurrection in Mozambique against the government, and most of those folks live up north. And so, Mozambique, the government, they have so much need, they refuse to allow any missions organizations to, relief organizations, to drop off any food or any supplies in the northern section.

Well, I knew a number of the cost section. And so, we went and we bought a bunch of beans, we bought a bunch of maize, we bought a bunch of fuel, we bought some chlorine, so that we could, because a lot of people die not from starvation, but from cholera. We bought a bunch of stores, so you've got to purify the water, and you can't take enough water, so you purify what's there. And then we found a couple of leaders in the central section of Mozambique who weren't devastated, and they got a truck. By the way, it was a truck that I wouldn't drive, but, and on roads that I wouldn't drive, and on roads that I wouldn't drive in good times, and this was in the middle of, you know, these sea floods, and they loaded them up, and they drove up, and they met with these pastors, and they gave beans, and they gave maize, and they gave fuel, so that these pastors could actually distribute it to their communities.

The only restriction we had was, you couldn't just give it to your friends, you have to give it equally to everyone in your community, and they did it. We were able to do that only because we had a race looking forward. Without that relational capital, you know, there are some organizations, and I don't want to disparage any organization, but there are some who have the lowest overhead, and the problem is that they take their cost of stuff, and they put them on barges, and they get dropped off in the dust, and they tell the person who's supposed to pick it up, and they tell the person who's supposed to pick it up, please pick it up, and there's no way of checking it, and we said we don't want to do that, but we want, we want somehow to do relational equity.

Okay, I think you get that. Last of all, we partner with other gospel-centered churches who are doing something we want to do, but we're doing it better, and we let them get out of our country. That's part of your kingdom, not our own plan. And so, you know, the only one who should get credit anyways is the Lord Jesus Club. Okay. Does that make sense? Whatever questions you have, don't ask now. You can talk to me afterwards. Three main focus. We have three main ministries that we do. It doesn't mean this is all we do, but three that we really emphasize. It's where we focus, because we have a larger impact. Number one, the kids' club. And which direction is the kids' club? It's over here. You know, I had no idea when we scheduled this message months ago that we were going to feed them food last week.

I had no idea we were going to be asking you to feed them food again in a couple weeks. I think God just wonderfully orchestrated that. We do a number of things. We do outdoor events. I mean, Michelle sets up her whole bouncing houses. It's not a bouncing house. It's like a bouncing village, you know. And when she sets those things up, the last time we did it, the kids were standing at the fence, you know, those chain-link fence, and it looked like they were in prison. They were staring, heviting, you know. And so our volunteers went over and said, hey, tell your parents, come on over. I love Brian's comment about, he was sitting, I think he was sitting out on the picnic table, and the kids were, like, running around our building. And one of them stopped and said to them, I've never been in a church.

What does it smell like in there? And so when we did our Easter eggs, we invited them all to come in and see what it smells like and participate. And we think that's wonderful. So we scholarship. It's focused on low-income families or after-school care, and some of them can't afford the nominal amount, so we scholarship. And we have people who go and read, and I hope that eventually some of us will actually maybe mentor some of these kids as kind of a more formal mentor. We partner with Eagle Scouts to build things. We're going on a couple cases, and I can give you examples of that. We serve meals. I found out just yesterday that Phyllis is now organizing all of the clothing for distribution. And she said to me this morning, she said, yeah, I'm going to need some volunteers, because right now, for those of you who helped us, like, clean out a room, you know what I'm talking about.

We walked into a room, and, like, as this was the room, it was bumpy stuff up to the ceiling. So if you need a size 4-3, well, there's probably one in there somewhere. So Phyllis is organizing it so that we actually know where it all is, but then I guess she's hoping we can get some people that would help her, because we want to be able to say to parents, oh, if you want to come stop, it's free, but come stop, and it's organized. So those are things that we do. Sally, I mean, she's here. She reads over there all the time. If any of you would love to just read for Jesus, Sally would help me figure out how to do that in one of the missions that we collectively have decided to serve.

That's our Jerusalem, folks. The verse we read today that when the Holy Spirit comes on you, you will be my witnesses. Where? In Jerusalem, locally. There's also a Judea and Samaria. This is a little bit beyond us here, and it's geographically and also culturally a little bit beyond us. And so back when we planned this message way back when I had no idea that Mike was taking 19 people, as of yesterday, to go to one of our three folk lives, Blazing Hope Ranch. Blazing Hope Ranch is a residential facility that helps, I think, primarily women, edu, with sex training. They also do a lot of education. So I had hundreds of years here when they came and they talked about your ministry, and some of them will correct my staff, but they said that, that, um, I'm close here, I'm not getting exact, but something like 90% of runaways are contacted by a recruiter in the sex trafficking world within 24 hours.

They hang out at bus stations. They hang out at bus stations. They pick up hitchhikers. They go to parks. So one of the things they're doing is trying to educate young men and young girls on how to avoid the internet standards of sex trafficking. How to, if you're going to run away, what's your first step to not getting that? Trying to do some education. If you've actually had conversations, could we maybe have them come and give that kind of sending here with some of our kids and maybe some of the kids over at the kids' club? Well, wouldn't that be awesome to just cross-pollinate? So this week, they're going to build a 12 by 20 foot, 24 foot cage shelter. They're going to electrify two more cabins. They're going to install solar lights all over the property.

They're going to repair, they're going to paint, they're going to landscape, they're going to clean, they're going to move 300 hay bales. 300 hay bales, they use horses in their therapy and you've got to feed those horses. That's what you do, that's like Samaria. And it's something that we've said we are going to invest in. And how often does Mike run these tests? Twice a year. So, if you don't like the heat, go to the next one. If you don't like the cold, go to one a year from now. Yeah, you can choose. Okay, the third one, and we have a special guest. And again, we planned this message way back when with no clue that the Kamars were actually going to be in the state at this time. And no idea that they actually had a weekend spree before they go to the conference up in Michigan.

And so, I just think it's providential that God threw them in here. I do want to take a few minutes because this is a passing of mine. It's a massive passing of mine. Okay, then. This passage. Notice that the verse is to be the mission statement of all churches, contextualize. What does it say? Therefore, go into all the world and make of what? Of all what? Say that one more time. All nations. So, you do realize that at the time of Jesus, there was not a current nation-state political entity. The nation-state that we experience throughout the world. You look at the map and you see it. That's a rather new creation of society. The word is actually all ethnos. And by nation, what they mean is not Afghanistan and Israel and the United States and Canada and Bulawayo.

What they mean is socio-economic linguistic people groups. So, here are eight areas that define people groups. People who have common language, have common economics, have common religion, have common ethnicity, a common level of urbanization, lots of it, little of it. Same definition of family, you realize that most of the world does not define family the way you and I do. It's defined as a family. Location, education, and when people share most of those things relative to one another, they become what we call a people group. Okay? So, in 97, I went to the Mennonite Annual World Conference in Calcutta. And after going there, I went up and visited churches up in Bihar, which is a northern section of India. And I met this gentleman. Now, here's my question. On those eight areas I just listed, do you think he's likely in any of them?

We don't speak the same language. Maybe religion, although I suspect his Christianity would be manifested very differently than what mine is. If you would come here, people would go, boy, this is not what I thought it was. And when I go there, it's like, yeah, that's quite what I thought it was. Education, no. Location, no. Ethnicity, no. Family, no. So, when you get lots of people that identify with him, really, they become a people group. So, here's the point. The Great Commission was to, well, I guess it's not just, while going, make disciples of every people group.

That's just every person. Every people group. I love this slide. This is a picture of Afghanistan. There's 11 different people groups. They are, they're, they're, they're, they're social, linguistic, ethnic groups. They're, they're, they're, they're biblical nations within Afghanistan. And crossing those boundaries is a challenge for evangelism. So, India. India is now the most partiest country in the world. They just passed China recently.

They, in India, missiologists, people who study this stuff, have identified 2,373 different people groups in the country of India. And those same missiologists, and if you want to look this up yourself, you can go to the Traveling Project, or you can go to Joshua Project. That's a great place. It's a website. It shows you the whole world. But they'll determine whether there's 2,373 people groups. 2,135 of them are what we call unreached. What I mean by unreached is they do not have a sufficient Christian witness in their people group to reach themselves. It would be as if, in Winchester here, we were all hindered. And there were wealthy believers scattered throughout Winchester. No established churches, they fellowship together, but no queer established churches. Oh, and China spoke sick Christians here. One of whom spoke English.

The other five were in language acquisition school. And then there were two Protestantians who'd been here for two years, and they're supposed to reach us for the gospel. We would be considered unreached. So, I realize some of your neighbors are unreached, but the numbers I'm going to give you do not count those folks. Everyone or not everyone. Most people in America, there are a few pockets of unreached people groups. For me, for the Quebec Co-op in Canada, the Navajo out west. But those groups are considered by the Joshua Project as unreached. In other words, so have a sufficient witness within our own people group as we would just do what he's called us to do with our neighbors. They would hear it. They could turn into a radio station. They could pick up a book.

They know someone at work. They know someone at school. But when you look at India, every one of those dots represents a people group that doesn't have sufficient capacity to fear the gospel within the own people groups. Of the 1.4 billion people in India, missiologists, the fact they estimate that 1.35 billion of them live in one of those unreached people groups. I'm thrilled that we're partnering with India, primarily because it has one of the largest concentrations of ethnos, nations, that our Lord told us we must make witness. We must witness. We must witness. We must make this like this. Real bad. Okay. Let's go to the world really quick. There's actually 3.4 billion people out of the 8 billion people in our world that we estimate live in unreached people groups. So they don't have capacity.

So if my volunteers, my duck kid volunteers, some are going to go over in the corners, and two are going to come up here. I want to try to illustrate this for you because big numbers are really hard to understand. I'm sorry, can you, Mike, I told you wrong. Can you kind of move the cross for me? Okay, so if you'll take this, and just start going that way. Okay, come on, let's go. And if you'll come on over. That's okay. Thank you. You can put that down on the floor. I want to move. Thank you. Yes. Okay. Can you move it over a little closer here, guys? Guys, you can move it over a little closer. So I want everyone looking at your index finger. Hold up your index finger. You know, this little light of mine.

Keep moving over the hill of these crates coming together. Come on, guys. Okay, that's what I expect I can do. Now, if you can wrap that one around so it holds on there. So if you're looking at your index finger, look at the spots between your first knuckle and the tip of your finger. Okay? That's about an inch. If that represents one million people, right now going around your sanctuary is a representation of 3.4 billion people who live in an unreached people group who has no access, no viable access to the gospel.

Big cash. Okay, let's give it to everybody. I'm on the phone, right? Go over it. I'll give you that. Okay. Now, the question is, how are we reaching? Well, it keeps the problem. The Chavelin team says there are about four, I'm sorry, Johnson Project says there's about 400,000 missionaries in the world. The big thing is, only houses in the Western, more than houses in the Western, non-Western nation. I love that. In fact, you know that India is one of the largest senders of cross-cultural missionaries. And they just don't send them out of India. They send them to other people groups in India. It's really cool. Because, like I asked it up there, there's some more recognition of a lot better than I think. I mean, I realize he's not part of your peoplehood. But you can speak to them in ways that I don't have a clue to speak to them.

You might have one or two languages, but you actually speak to them. You know, I don't. So, they estimate about 400,000. The Chavelin team says about 425,000. So, I'm going to be no more. I hate liars and statistics. So, we're going to double that. We're going to assume that there's 800,000 missionaries. Twice what they estimate. Here's the problem, folks. Of those missionaries going cross-cultural, only 3.3% of them work with unreached people groups.

Let me also take that for you. Let's assume that every missionary, well, probably twice as many, but we'll assume twice as many missionaries, and 3.3% of them are diligently working in their enemies people groups. And every one of those individuals is highly successful. Each one, each one reaches 500 people for the gospel. That sounds incredible. I mean, that would be unbelievable. Well, if you do the math, I did the math. That's about 13.6 million people. So, that's about 13 and a half inches.

Is that something to use? Well, here's the good news. We've made a mistake. We've thought that the Great Commission said, therefore, go and make disciples of everyone. And that's not what it says. It says, go and make disciples of every ethno, of every ethno-linguistic people group. If we take God's plan, we do not reach the world through addition. We don't reach them one at a time. Has anyone ever seen this thing about a chessboard? So, if you haven't, good. I want you to pay attention. I don't think they could do it. We'll pay two chessboards. On my chessboard, I'll put a million dollars on each square every day for the next 64 days. And when we're done, I'll give it to you. And all you've got to do on your chessboard is the first score, you put a penny.

And the next day, you double it. Two pennies. And then four pennies. And then eight pennies. And it really gets expensive. 16 pennies. And you get to 32 pennies really quickly, you know? And you fill up your board, doubling it. And we'll show boards. And they run in on it. So, here's the mess. I'll give you $64 million. Our national debt is $32 trillion. And you will, at the end of that, be $184 quadrillion dollars. You see, God's plan, folks, is not to reach every person as missionaries. God's plan is for us to reach every nation. There's 7,000 unreached people groups. 7,200 in some order. If we can partner in a way to reach the people group in such a way that they can then reach their own folks, you're dealing with multiplication. So, I'm thrilled that one of our three emphasis is not just the reason, not just you do this scenario, but the other most parts of the earth.

I mean, I'm exposing someone who is working in a country that has the largest concentration of unreached people groups and is positioned to do the work so much better than I could go there a decade and I still wouldn't know what I didn't know.

I'm thrilled that we can partner with that. You guys can drop that. And I want you to take a little moment and watch the video and then Ron is going to introduce you to our guests. I'm going to introduce you to our guests. I'm going to introduce you to our guests. I'm going to introduce you to our guests. We'll introduce you to our guests. We'll introduce you to our guests. We'll introduce you to our guests.

My understanding, your father came to us from the family in the '70s, '60s, '60s. I got a call from the Lord to go back to his homeland. And he formed that one local missionary going back. We now have 150 churches, a medical clinic, a family school. Tell me what it was like to experience all that. We'll introduce you to our guests. We'll introduce you to our guests. We'll introduce you to our guests.

Your kingdom may be more clearly seen on earth as it is in heaven. We'll introduce you to our guests. We'll introduce you to our guests. All right.
