Sonship & Fatherhood
2023-09-18
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kJD-jk5Sbvc

Good morning everybody. I'll introduce myself quickly. I want everybody to just speak real quick and I want you to close your eyes. And I want you to stick with your hands up like you're responding to it. I just want to pray as we just said to you to receive the love of the Father this morning. There's some of us that even though we've walked with the Lord for years, we can sometimes lose sight of what it really means to receive love from the Father. Some of us may have lost our dads, may have, you know, others' fathers, or some of them may be, you know, mentor, grandfather, somebody else is a dad figure that's toward him, toward him, so we don't really see any more, we don't want to contact with me more of a name. We still are who we are today because of them. We are who we are today.

We are Christians because of the love of the heavenly Father. So, Jesus, in your name, I pray for all of us in the Spirit, even those who are watching our life, to receive the love of the Father this morning. Lord, let your Spirit speak through areas of our lives where we have left, the areas of our lives where we still deal with deep insecurities because of whatever the reason or traumas or unmet expectations, whatever it is, Lord, Father, just pray that you, that the Holy Spirit would move on us right now this morning and speak to those vulnerable areas of our lives, Lord. Those areas where we just need the Father to speak into, to dwell in, and to rest in. So, Father, we receive you this morning, and we live in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, my name is Nick. I'm happy to be with you this morning. I

serve locally in Winchester at Crossroads Community Church. Now, I'm sorry, our church is a part of a network called Dovering Longshore, and I'm our youth director for the USA, so I tend to have too much on my plate. But when I got a text message at 4.52 last night from Ryan, he asked me to jump in today. I had just enough gnawing my plate this morning so I could curve off and jump over to you here this morning. So, when he said that he was sick, but I got a feeling that he might not be as sick, maybe, as he said. He could be sitting on a beach somewhere. I'm not really sure. He could just be in a hospital bed. I don't really know. And so, Ryan, we love you. Thanks for watching. Thank you for having me. I hope that I do you a good service by just

being with the canvas of priests this morning. So, we are going to plot your series, your part you're in right now, the John series, and we're going to have a one-off today because I didn't know you were in a John series. I would have tried to come up with something at 3 in the morning, but I just, you know, we're going to go here. So, it's cool. So, we're going to read in Galatians chapter 4, verse 1 through 6. I'm going to read from the New American Standard Version. It says, Now, I say, as long as the heir is a child, he does not differ at all from a slave, although he is the owner of everything. But he is under guardians and managers until the gates set by the Father. So, also we, while we were children, that we were held in bondage under the elemental

things of the world. But when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, so that he might redeem those, who were in the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. He says, you are sons. God sent forth the spirit of his son into our hearts, crying back to him out of the family. Today, we're going to discuss 30, holistic and fatherhood. Really, it's the realities of both of those things. What is the realities of being a son and the realities of being a father? So, when I say son, I'm using that as a gender neutral term, so ladies, not leaving you out, okay? If we, as men, need to be the bride of Christ, you got to be sons this morning, okay? So, I'm going to keep using the term son to just remember

it covers both genders, okay? Knowing our identity as a son is immensely important. Not everyone grows up with this sense that they are loved, accepted, and valued for who they are. This is not always a reflection on parents. Don't think that I'm being negative and critiquing your parenting. Although, not always for being truthful, sometimes it can be. But I'm not critiquing anybody in this prison, because I really only know a few of them. Two children can be raised in the same home, and they can tell it completely different. I just heard a story from, uh, from, uh, from, uh, from, uh, from, uh, from, uh, from Anthony this morning. Of these two sons, these first one and second were totally different. We have got a beautiful example in Genesis, where he has two friends in the very beginning, King and Abel. Two very

different approaches to life that ended very badly. I've been in youth ministry long enough to have brothers fight, but fortunately, none of them have changed themselves like what happened in Genesis, but still don't fight. But they were raised in this thing in the home, turned out totally differently. I had struggles in my childhood, not feeling loved and accepted by my earthly father. I was fortunate enough to have two dads growing up. No, it wasn't some progressive 20-22 family. We were just, my parents divorced, those who were young, so I had a a stepdad and a biological father. Those of them were just really learning what it was to be a young dad and young parents. Yet they made great mistakes, and I suffered a lot of consequences because of some of the things that they did. Whether it was physical abuse that was rampant in my home as a child,

or it was mental abuse, or it was unknowingly teaching children terrible habits, but it took a long time for me to overcome those habits. I share those things because childhood, the way we are raised in our home deeply matters. And it's very clear. I'm sure any parents, I'm really just speaking to the client. The insecurities developed that I developed in my adolescence and struggles, things that I struggled with was really a sense of belonging. I never really felt like I belonged in my home. And I still deal with that sometimes too soon, whether it's in the friends group or, you know, if I'm around people that might be smarter than me or older than me, whether or not I feel like I really belong in this situation. And I think it really speaks to a human condition,

not just, you know, this is just my experience. I'm sure that you can relate to this, to what I'm feeling. But these things that I walked through as a child at a young age, and I'm not a depressed person. I don't really deal with depression, even though I can get depressed in quite a lot of times. I'm generally and naturally, like, very energetic and high, you know, I don't really get depressed. But as a child, I developed deep depression for a few years. It was really bad. And it was from one of the insecurities of my lack of a father's attention into this son's life. It took a long time for me to overcome some of this. Praise God, the spirit of the Lord is great as a lot of us in enemy. This created in me what I started to call, years later, this is, I didn't

know this as a term, but I, I, I, sorry. This created me what I call a cultural war with enemies. Because I was living in a home with parents, living in a home with parents that loved me, but yet I didn't really feel like I belonged. I didn't feel like I was a part of it. There was a battle for our souls. It really was crazy and what was, what was kind of happening. And that's very clear today. And maybe we could say throughout history, you can see the battles in your souls has been happening these predominant times. Genesis has been a battle for us. Today, it feels a little bit more intense, but I think because we got more information today than we did 150 years ago. The battle for our souls, we have to see it as like our generation is now, so we can't

just judge ourselves by what the laughter was, you know, 100 years ago. We're dealing with things in our current time and culture. But those things are more against the Spirit of God, at least most of the things. There's a larger culture war. Not that I dig into that this morning, because that's going to open up a can of worms that I don't think I want to leave running and you all to have to deal with later, because I would like to be invited back to him if he would do this at some point. So, I don't want to stir it up too bad, but there is a great resource. There's tons of resources. There is a book that was written, I think I've read it almost two times. The first time I got mentally through it, I couldn't finish it,

but the second time I made it clear, it's called The Rising Triumph of the Modern Self. It's a 400-page book. There is a shorter version called A Brave New World by Carl Truman as the author. He's a professor at Grove City in Pennsylvania. But he goes through and he's seamlessly through the enlightening and how the losing of secularism has made its way not only in academia, but all the way down into the home. And how this has caused for a separation on this anxiety from the truth of the gospel into the truth of our human self. Instead, I'm going to focus my efforts really on the internal struggles of one. And I know that we don't all want to admit it, but there is a struggle sometimes. And really, this is the gross over-simplification, but it's really the new self and our old self. It's pride. It's a need of

forgiveness. So what is the old self? I had this dream years ago. This is, this is, this is, this is, it's heartbreaking and I'll continue to say this. Todd is for the rest of my years. I dream, I'm driving with my wife, Emily. He's up here on the side of this and we're, we're driving around like, I get out and then I put it in my book bag and I'm walking around and then an arm falls out one time. Then I take that arm and I put it back in my book bag and I keep walking. Then a leg falls out the other side. So I take that leg, I shove it back in and keep going in the other way and the other way. Then I'm like, and as I'm walking, I'm like leaning more and more forward because it's

really heavy. And you know, I have in this body that's in my book bag. So we get to my car, we put it in the trance, there's a head, there's a full body. It's not just arms and lights, I torso everything. You've got the trance when I wake up. And you don't, I don't think you need to be a crumpet or deeply pathetic to know what that dream was representing to me. As I'm tearing around my old self. In my reaction to situations, in the way that I'm receiving love from my wife, in the way that I'm leading others, the old self keeps rearing his ugly head and sticking his arm out. And then I'm going to walk forward because of the weight that I'm carrying. I was trying to carry around my old self. And that's the newness that I had in front. And from that, I felt like the Lord was leading me

into me saving in Romans chapter, Romans 13, 14, where Paul says to put on Christ. And it felt like I was still walking around his neck. Not you need. Because there's a newness that we have when we come to Christ. And we need to deny these things that we are the head of. And I don't care if you've been walking with the Lord for 50 years. There's going to be some things that come up, man. And you need to deal with it. Amen? The cultural war we see in us is really the struggle between two nations. Paul says this in Romans 6, 12 to 14. He says, "We are in your obligation not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you are living according to the flesh, you must die me.

But by the spirit you are putting to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are being led by the spirit of God, you are sons of God." This is what it means to be a son. A son, a reality of being a son is that we deal with our benefits. That we deal with the things that come up, and we don't try to carry this around because it's going to get heavy over time. It's going to weigh you down. That's what it's going to turn into bitterness. It's going to turn into, you know, that unmet expectation. It's going to just bury itself so deep in you that it's going to rear its ugly head at the wrong time because we don't deal with our things already being a son. And if you're not dealing with it, does that mean that you don't feel like you can talk to your husband and father?

I was listening to somebody say this the other day, and he said that it was, it was actually, it was Mother Teresa saying, "Are you not going to get me up here without floating or get a camera?" Mother Teresa, she's alive and kind of started, right? So, Mother Teresa was standing at a prayer breakfast in the 90s, and she shared of how one person was just praying, just praying, just praying for years, and finally something happened. And so, someone was asking her, like, "Why do you think God took so long to answer a prayer?" Or, "Why did God, why did God, why was God praying?" And she said, "The point in the whole thing was that they were talking to God about their thing. They weren't being quiet. Whether he was going to answer your prayer today, or answer your prayer in 20 years,

she was still too meaningless done. She felt that she could talk to a heavenly father. As a child, I don't feel, I did not feel that I could go up and talk to my dad about a pornography addiction. Right? Real something. I didn't feel comfortable in doing that. It speaks to a connection that was lacking with my earthly father. Whether he would have welded me, whether he would have belittled me, whether he would have just told me to get over it. Versus a heavenly father will love you in the thing you're in, and will do you out of the thing. Because fear is what envelops us. And it's only this fear of a God that's in us that's crying out of the Father that brings us out and in to him. The cultural war that resided in Paul, as he was sharing now, is this, he's continuing this dichotomy of his old self.

As we read through Romans, Paul is discussing between the law and the new covenant with Jesus. He's discussing this thing, and there's a larger picture to ourselves of this culture war that our souls are kind of in this war. We have a new life in Christ. We have a new life in Christ by the setting of our old self and walking in the moon. The very first sermon I ever preached was about putting on Christ. I had this old self. And it was frozen, it was white, it was ragged. I wanted to teach this talk at the times, there was booms all over it. And I used it as an example of just my old self. It beat up, torn up, it was stretched down. It was that baking nut where it's not coming back together.

Because yes, when you're throwing that new suit, you feel like a new person. And that was me putting on Christ, knowing, not just feelings, but knowing that I found out this beauty of redemption in my life. Point number two, something that's happening all the time, and whether we see it or not, whether it's social, theological, ideological, even political, and is the conditioning of our souls. This lower region of our souls than the littlest thing. When we got to go away for a few days over this problem, we go to the outer banks like probably a lot of you were hearing when you did a change. And so we stayed down in the heavenlies. And if you've ever been down the heavenlies where the lighthouse is, they had to move the lighthouse bank. I think it's more than a mile because the beach was eroded.

And where we stayed was you walked down to the beach from there. I think a house that washed away not that long ago because of the erosion. And as we're walking through, as we're walking down the beach, I was noticing how the stand we were walking on was an important thing. I know this is going to sound weird. I'm not a local to the outer banks, but I'm a stand kind of sore. But I could tell the difference between the standing that they brought in to help with the erosion to when we got to the natural stand that there was something different about it. And then that's when the Lord started to show me through. This is what erosion looks like. This is what allowing little things to draw us away from God slowly over time.

Just a few things. Don't say this morning, we're going to come to that. You know, we all feel that. You're tired. Don't give up and don't pray. Don't continue with God's life. You have too much on your plate to do. It's a little bit of erosion. But there's a time, it doesn't feel like a lot, but a little bit now, to turn into where you're so far off of the path of following God that it's going to be a long road. It feels like a long road we get back, but it's really in your mind to turn back to the Lord. Our souls have a constant onslaught of immediate things and activities that are all around us. Not too much in our minds, generally, or just super active. And when out of rhythm, we get very misplaced, used, beat up, even deeply confused in how we got there.

These things are either sports or against them. I know you're in a lot of great areas in parenting. I've learned that over the lines we read. But there's no great areas here. It's black or white. It's either for you or against you. You either be conditioned for righteousness or for evil. I'm either being conditioned for righteousness or evil. Dallas Willard says this in his book, Renovation of the Heart. His failure to know what God is really like and what his law requires destroys the soul, ruins society, and leads people to eternal life. Because then the fourth book says, my people are destroyed for a lack of knowledge. And the people without understanding comes to ruin, which is 414. The tragic condition of the Western culture, which is put away information about them, that God himself has motivated them.

I know this will happen. I'm reading this part again. And he says, the failure to know what God is really like and what his law requires destroys the soul. Lack of knowing who a father is, like, almost like, I don't want to say like it's barrier of this imported thing, but it's really like to say like the father is there, not to protect you, but leading you away and leading you to these things. Because they're all around you. You go to work today. Or better yet, as you're here, go turn on the news. I don't normally recommend that. And you'll see an eroding of the soul by the propagandals on most news outlets. Our intentionality or the lack of life. Or our easily influenced selves will erode our souls later in the time. You can catch yourself doing things that you might not even know that you were doing.

We were at an Ikea one day. And we were eating lunch. I don't know if you've ever eaten lunch in an Ikea before, but they've got pretty good sweeted meatballs and mashed potatoes. And so we're eating there. And I'm starving this food game like it was after sports practice over summer when I'm a teenager. I mean, I'm eating this as fast as I can. And my wife says, look, hey, what are you doing? Like, I see your mates in the room. And then I just pause and I look up. And there's usually 400 or 500 people in this place. I didn't pull out. There's parents. There's kids. There's people walking to go get food. There's people going into the store. There's people going to walk around in this giant place in this Ikea. There's waiters or not waiters.

There's bus stops. There's people working calories. There's either dishes clanking. There's all this chaos around us. I match the room without even knowing and discovering this food and like having eaten in a week. I mean, I'm good at eating, but that's a little bit. The point is that the Lord showed us in that moment that we unknowingly took up things around us. Even in that moment, mysterically, I was being conditioned to do this without even knowing. How awesome is that happening in our heart and heart? No black and white. Or it's all black and white. No brown. The reality of friendship means that we need to be led by the Spirit. We need to allow the Holy Spirit to get his elements. And even let spiritual advice and speak into our lives and expose our lives.

But maybe there's some unrociousness. Or, hang on, you see it in medicine. It's a temptation to say, even in that moment, am I going to receive from my wife? It's like, no, I'm hungry. No, I've got to pause and have to count this to the speed. We have to be able to do that. Friends, listen, and not just do. Sometimes we have to move quickly and do it. The friends are patient. Friends wait. Point number four, love. Conditional versus unconditional.

This sounds like an easy distinction to make. So, it's complicated for a little bit. Some would say that God's love is unconditional. He loves you just as you are, and He welcomes you in. And that's very true. Now, I'll also say, well, God does. But in our strale and deeply realms our minds, we sometimes, and I dare say often, miss the point of God's love completely, because we put human conditions on top of them. We say, if I can just get over this tendency, then God's going to love you. If I can just act in a certain way, then I'm going to receive God's love. Or, you know, I'm going to do the church in a long way, or I'm going to, you know, pray the love, so like I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, but I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not. So, I'm putting the human condition on God's love.

So, I'll write Romans 5, like we say, I hope you haven't disappointed, but because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who He has been given to us, for a while we react correctly, at the right time, Christ died for the end of life. For one, which hardly died for righteousness, for a good news, someone would dare to even die. A kind of, that God demonstrates His love toward us, for a while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We did nothing, and yet we received everything. Any condition that I put on that is something that says, I'm putting some things in the way of God, we received Him, God's love. The love of the Father is so tender, you know, though, because the Bible says in John that the only way to come to the Father is to Jesus.

So, it's a very conditional statement. The same condition that you just show up to God, you show up. Don't try to get clean before you come into the house. You show up to the God, however you are. He cleans you up, but He's bound to be through Jesus. So, there's the conditional part of it, perhaps for us, that He's, the love of the Father is so conditional, that through Jesus is to tell, we re-commune. That He loved us, even when we were in the experience that He sacrificed His promise, for our sake, and the sake of the world. Perhaps I can complicate and slightly further, and say that God's love is paradoxical and very contrary to the world around us. It has to be. It has to be completely different than the world around us.

But how can that be? Because people at my work or, you know, around me, some of my friends, even around Christians, they say all the time, you love you for who you are. In our community, they will tell you that they love you and just be who you are. If Christ is an ideological one, and puts thank you, just know, not love, and you'll see how fast the world turns on you. Because they'll spit you out as fast as they receive you in you. Jesus, Hosanna, in the highest, as he rides you on a donkey, only for days later to crucify that man. So, He thinks that the world loves you. They don't. Because He keeps sitting suddenly the box good enough to really receive that love. You have to change everything about you to fit into an ideological box to receive that love.

Yet in Christ, when you remove an ideological box, go through the narrow gate of Christ, and walk into the love of the Father. It's so conditional. It's so unconditional that it's conditional. It's so strange to think of this paradoxical view that it's so conditional to Jesus, because yet I'm just going to turn around in. I don't have to bring anything other than myself. Now, I do not, hold on. The reality of this friendship is that the Father's love is both conditional and unconditional. Unconditional, coming from the world, unconditional, and through Jesus, his condition, he calls his son. The paradoxical love of God. Second section, 11 minutes, so think about this. So, we're going to come, please. Okay. The reality is his fatherhood. This is tough. His fatherhood is not easy. Our home runs loosely experienced.

So, Tori, almost, we've been, in a few weeks, actually, this weekend, we celebrate 20 years now. We have not been able to help our natural children in life. So, we have a lot of spiritual children. So, we really were that way. We're like, you know, my honey is quiet at the end of the night. I have a dog. We have a couple of dogs and tents for the building. So, we turned our lives upside down like that one of the girls received in a two-year-old, and her mother was in our youth people in time. And so, we're supporting this family in the reunification concept. However, we don't know what this future could turn out like. But we've learned a lot in this last three weeks. And this is not an original quote, but a friend of mine said that when you get married, it reveals your selfishness.

That's true, man. And then when you have a child, it reveals your anger. And God, I was like, man, that is true. Fatherhood is tough. For those of us, for those of you who have kids, one day you just live in your life. So, we're not to eat whatever you want, do whatever, and then the next day, you have this life that you are solely responsible for. And not just to feed and keep one of them. But you have the great and beautiful responsibility of discipling that challenge into who they are supposed to be in the units of God. Not who I want them to be in the units of God, in my selfishness, wanting to try to form them in the way that I think they should be, rather than going, Lord, how are they going to be formed in your units?

And how do I want them to fit in the trajectory to get them to where you want them to go? How's something in the zone? Or, again, really, it's like, as you grow, you know, things are looking great, but then you get them a teenager and they resent you. All of this hard work that you put in me for years is then to say, I hate you, I don't want to be anything like you. It's like, man, I had to repent when I was in my 20s, but after I thought about this, I would repent even more and apologize to my parents for the failure that I was as a teenager. So, now, let's flip with faith. Everything I just said about parenting, I want you to flip. I want you to do that with God.

What's that position? In you as a child and God was a son? You resenting him because of some bad thing that's happened in your life? Maybe blaming God or death or destruction or giving him credit, maybe? It's something that it's not his fault, but yet we put the blame on God for things. I didn't turn up the way I was facing because of this trauma in my life, and I'm not even doing trauma, it's a light ring. Counseling, everything's needed. Discipleship is needed for these things. But the point is, is that fatherhood is difficult. Not for God. It's difficult for us. Because we're the ones that fight against our insecurities. We're the ones that fight against the selfishness of wanting to do things, wanting you, wanting a child to fit into a box that we want them to fit in.

We want them to be a monkey when maybe they're an elephant. We want them to be a dog when they might be a cat. How humbling is that as a time to think about it. The reality of fatherhood is mutual, complex, whatever so simple. You are responsible, and remember, gender neutral, fathers and mothers, okay? You are responsible for the spiritual formation and disciplining of your child. First, discipleship starts at home. What I've learned in my short time in ministry, which is less than 15 years, is that it is vitally important as a youth pastor. I'm a youth pastor for a long time, and now I'm a youth director. It is vitally important that discipleship starts at home. It's not my responsibility to be the first to fight for a youth child. I saw that in the native sense when I first surrendered my life to Christ, where a youth pastor was taking way more responsibility in children's lives and actually working against their pains.

And I just felt like that was so dishonoring. Like, that's not what Jesus called us about honoring our parents at all. And so, you know, you have this beautiful, we have this beautiful responsibility. And it is beautiful. It is deeply challenging. It is deeply rewarding. It is deeply rewarding. This beautiful formation begins, our spiritual formation begins when we're conceived and born. Whether your parents know it or not, whether your parents knew it or not, an intentionally and unintentionally raised you. Because there's a lot of unintentional moments that come up with parents in which you couldn't have predicted. And you're like, oh, perfect opportunity. That's what discipleship is, too. It's unintentional things happen all the time. And the spirit of the Lord moves in and helps direct us through these even unintentional moments. And he helps us work out through, the Lord really helps us work out on what I like to call an ancient time of narcissism.

Where we make it all about us versus what Robert Mulholland says, he says, for the sake of others. Peter Therese says that in his spiritually healthy, emotionally healthy spirituality, he says, we're all born narcissists. We're slowly working on it as we grow. That's children. That's all it says is me. And I still, even though I'm not a narcissist, and I'm sorry if I'm punching somebody right now, but I'm not a narcissist, but I am not a narcissistic. I want things my way. I want to, I want to be in charge sometimes where I need to take a box to eat. I want to do all these things sometimes. I want to work out of myself the things that are not supposed to be. It's not just about me. This is about being in the body.

When we accept Christ, we accepted Christ into a body of Christ, not a person living in the woods. Although, I think it's more appealing than you get older. Disciples of who we are, formations, and state of becoming. We are always being formed into something. Remember what it said about conditioning. We're always being formed. I know she puts force as a character and it's something like that to where, like, it's like your coach teaches you muscle memory into you, to where you naturally will end up doing something because you've practiced it out so much. And I'm not standing in spiritual realm with, you know, it's the same thing, but the time step has overlap. We do it all the time. We wake up, we pray. We wake up, we read Scripture. We practice spiritual disciplines. We practice when we're in silence.

We practice silence and solitude. I know that one's a really tough one to get today. But we practice these things that the early church worked out. There's a book called The Didache that was like a spiritual formation book that's circulated around churches. And the perception goes, we've been these things to help people be formed into the image of Christ. And that is us, as parents, as fathers and mothers, helping the next generation be formed into the image of God. I'm speaking to my last point on this. And that is, we are decrying the need for spiritual fathers and mothers. This might be a new term for some of you. Some of you, it might be something that you're very familiar with. But for those who are not, this is foundational for us in our early walk with Christ.

We didn't have this explicit language, but we worked it out because we saw the need for having spiritual minds and dads in our lives. Because it comes a point in a child's life where they need to be discipled outside of the home. It starts at home. It needs to be. Some of you just start to say, but you know what, sometimes there needs to be, and I would say almost all the time, there needs to be a moment in time where a child begins to be discipled outside of the home by somebody else. It must be a advisor, a youth pastor, you know, somebody, a son, an uncle, a cousin, and a sibling, and some way, discipleship grows as we grow. And we need, as parents, support around us. And that's what spiritual parenting really is, is that supporting parents in their ministry

to their children. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 4, 15, for if you have, if you were to have countless truths in Christ, you would not have many fathers. For in Christ, Jesus, I will be king, your father, through the gospel. Paul also refers to himself as a father of his churches, as well as Timothy. This is also an historical approach that we sometimes ignore in the Protestant church. Catholics call a priest's father. There's a new name for them. And we're kidding, those as things think. Orthodox churches do as similar. Also, the head of a convent, they're called Mother Superior. These terms matter because they are caring for ourselves. We have a couple of spiritual parents in our life, not many, because you don't need a couple. You need a couple, one or two, not many.

You don't want a lot of parents because, man, that's going to really mess it up with me. Too many parents, man, can be very bad. I cannot express the importance of this in life of how we meet spiritual minds and guys in the church. And that puts the owners and the responsibilities of everybody in this room, those who watch my line, those at my church, those at the church down the road, the one across the street, all of us. Because it's not for our sake, it's for the sake of others. Last point. In the beginning, I read Galatians 4, 1-2-6. Also, this in verse 5, he says, So that he might redeem those who are under the law, that you might receive these abundance in this place. When I read this, it really stood out.

And then me, even in their life. And I don't have a slide for this, because if I put it up there with me in Greek, and I need to read Greek, that's something that's going to be true for me. The New York City is an interesting word. It only appears five times in the New Testament, and two times in the Greek Septuagint, which is the Greek New Testament at the time of Jesus. And I think it was in Esther that this word shows up. But it's five times Paul uses this in Romans, Galatians, and Ephesians. In Romans 8-15, he says, For you have not received the spirit of slavery, leading you to fear of him, but you have received the fear of the blessing. Romans 8-23, he says, Not only this, but we ourselves, also having the first switch of the Spirit,

even we ourselves groaning within ourselves, while we are weak evenly, our adoption. And then Romans 9-4, he says, We are Israelites who bring, who belong to, the adoption. Galatians 4-5, I just read it. He says that we want to receive the adoption. And then Ephesians just thinks he's some key destination that we don't want to tell him to go to faith. And he says, Have you to destined us to adoption? Make sure we read that part right. To destined us to adoption. Why is adoption so important? And two times he emphasizes there was the adoption. There's one time when the adoption mattered the most of any other adoption. Adoptions are great. If you've adopted each other, bless you. If you're trying to adopt and you've thought about it, bless you. We've gone down the road before and it turned out tragically for us in motion and we couldn't handle it.

Because it was really bad. It ended terribly. Adoption meant that. And so why does Paul, why did all of you see it? It's very important that we see that when Paul says the adoption, he's talking about one thing. And one thing is very important. That when we as sons need to receive. That when we say yes to Jesus, when we become, I know you become adopted into the family of Yahweh. We no longer carry the dead stuff from what we used to find. But rather, we get a new name. When you adopt a child, they take on your name. So that now they belong into your family. When we say yes to God, through Christ, we get a new status. No longer am I this wandering person who has no place to call home, words we're speaking.

But when you say yes to Christ, you are now adopted into this most holy family. So when you get a new name, you get a full inheritance. Think about this. You get adopted into your family and your children have been there forever. And yet you get a full inheritance of them? How does that work? They've been there long and they were born into it. Because that doesn't matter. It says they, too, need to be adopted into the family of God. Into Yahweh's family. The importance of adoption carries a lot of weight. But sometimes we don't really think about the gravity of what it means. The gravity means is that I get a total in the name. I become a practice participating member of the family. I get a seat at the table. To where yesterday, I didn't.

And then today, I get to receive the fame as everybody else. And yet I couldn't work for you. I couldn't have worked hard enough. I couldn't have saved enough money. I couldn't have read the right book. I couldn't have had the right conversation with somebody. No. All I get to receive the form of God as an adopted son. I can now be a father because I'm a son first. The only way that we're going to walk out fatherhood is if we walk out the reality of being a son. And the reality of being a son is that you need to receive the fullness of what the Father has for you. Whether you think you deserve it or not. Stop thinking of whether you can work to deserve something. Because you can't. You don't deserve it. I don't deserve it. But yes, you've given it to us. Amen? It's really heavy. But that's okay. with symmetry.
