A SUMMER'S JOURNEY: The Importance of Unity
2024-07-08
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XR1Cy7vySBU

Welcome to Good morning, church. Thank you all so much for joining. Morning, Sherry. I love the energy. Let's go. Thanks so much for joining us this morning. We are continuing our series, long series, through the summer. I know all of you, you haven't missed a single week for vacation. None of you have gone anywhere nicer than where I've gone. It's fine. It's fine. None of you are watching online from the beach. It's fine. I'm not envious or jealous or anything.

Long summer series, through the life and ministry and teachings of the Apostle Paul. And our desire is that as we continue this series, that we would better understand who Paul is because he is the writer of a majority of the New Testament. So that as we read through his letters, we can better understand the context, the story behind the author that God chose by the power of his spirit to breathe through so much of our New Testament Scriptures. We looked at the biography of his life. He started a persecutor of the church. He started hating the church and had a radical encounter with Jesus, which led him into a deep, deep relationship with the Lord that fueled a passion for the church. He went on missionary journeys to plant and to strengthen churches. And ultimately, he went on a missionary journey at the end of his life where he voluntarily went

to prison so that he could get to Rome to share the gospel with those who might not hear it otherwise. He sacrificed his entire life for the gospel of Jesus. We looked at his biography. And last week, we started, we're going to go through about the next four weeks, pastoral kind of teachings and contributions that he made to the church. And we started last week by saying what Paul, how Paul talked about living missionally, living towards people who are outside the family of God, people who aren't yet brought into the family of God, who haven't yet submitted their lives to Jesus. And we said that Paul's, his whole method for living missionally was to lay down his priorities, his privileges, and his propensities to win an argument in order to win a person. Like he laid it all down.

Everything that he had, everything that he was able to claim, he said, none of it is worth the person who is outside the family of God. We will lay it all down. He calls, he invites all of us to do that, to live in a way that invites people into a right relationship with God. And this week, we're going to look at a natural consequence of what happens when we are successful at this. Like when we are successful at reaching people who are outside the family of God and bringing them inside the family of God, people from different ethnicities, different backgrounds, different theologies, different ideologies. Like when we reach a diverse group of people, guess what the church typically has a problem with next? Unity. Right? We struggle with unity as we reach a diverse background of people because we're good with

people that look like us, talk like us, act like us, all of that. Right? But if we do what Paul calls us to do, if we lay down our priorities and privileges and propensities to win arguments, we will win people who disagree with us on major consequential issues. And yet Paul, throughout his writings, is constantly hammering home the importance of the church being unified. It's one of the last things that Jesus prayed before he went to the cross, that the world will know that we are his disciples by our love for one another. And yet we struggle with this as people come into the family of God that look different than us. And so, we talked about living missionally. This week, we're going to talk about how do we have unity as we reach people who are far

from God. Sound like a plan? All right, let's pray. Holy Spirit, we invite you into this place. We know that you have been this week preparing all of us to hear and to receive, not just the message from stage, but through the worship and through interactions and prayers in the lobby and in this place. God, we know that you have a desire to conform us into your image, to conform us to the image of Jesus. We want this hour to do that in some way, shape, or form. We believe that you will do that. We're inviting you to do that. May we not have hard hearts, not have dull ears. May we open ourselves up before you. May you transform us from the inside out, not some kind of religious checkbox where we just do the things that you say to do begrudgingly, but may you give us the deep, deep desire to find unity with our brothers and sisters that we disagree with on difficult issues.

God, we believe that your church is most effective. I believe that your church is most effective when we are most unified. And I believe that we have the temptation, the struggle to not pursue that. So may this morning be a great reminder. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you have Bibles, I'd love for you to turn to Romans chapter 14. If you have a phone app or whatever, Romans chapter 14. I'm going to be reading from the ESV in a little bit so that you can follow along with me, one of the biggest privileges I get to participate in as a pastor is something that is called premarital counseling. Any of you ever experienced premarital counseling? Some of you? All right. I'm not making eye contact with the couple in the front row who is currently in premarital

counseling with me. Don't worry. What's shared in premarital counseling stays in premarital counseling. This will not be any of your stories. Probably. No, I'm just kidding. But here's the thing about premarital counseling, where I often start with in premarital counseling is I often ask people, like, what were the cultural norms in your family? How did things operate in your family of origin? And then identify which of those things do you like, dislike, agree with, want to stay the same, want to change? And it's important that we have these dialogues because we all have norms in our family. Whether you know it or not, there is a normal experience for your family. And oftentimes when two people come together from different families, they are on a crash course to realize that what they thought was normal to them wasn't necessarily normal to

the other person. Does that make sense? One of my favorite, like, little examples of this is maybe you grew up in a home where the norm was if you did the cooking, you don't do the dishes. That's, like, somewhat normal for some families, right? Now, if I don't find ways to forge those conversations with a young couple before they get married, if that was not the norm for the young man in the house, and the new lovely wife cooks dinner, wonderful dinner, and the man enjoys it and sits down on the couch and props his feet up, and for the wife, the norm was, I'm not doing the dishes. That man is on a collision course for conflict, right? And this is, like, this is a small illustration of what happens on such a bigger scale

when we reach diverse people coming into the family of God, because the church is the family of God. And as people come in with diverse backgrounds, diverse experiences, ideological thoughts, different worldviews, all of that stuff, we're all submitted to the Lord Jesus, but we don't become the same overnight, right? And so what happens in the church is we come into this place, we reach people who are different than us, and we immediately find tension. We find conflict because somebody sitting next to us thinks something differently than we do, or they see something from a different perspective than we do, and we say, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. That's not how this thing works. This is how this thing works. And so we end up fighting over things that we shouldn't be fighting over. We end up getting confused over things that shouldn't be confusing,

because we're fixated on things that are less important than the fact that we've all submitted to Jesus as Lord. And so we want to pursue unity. We want to have intentional conversations about our perspectives and our backgrounds. I love Austin Fisher as a pastor I really admire, and he says this, the church at its best is the most unifying social organization in world history. Notice he says, at its best. This is what Christ intended. When he prayed, you will be one. The world will know that you are my disciples when you are one. The church at its best is the most unifying social organization in world history, and yet as we look throughout church history, we see divisions and denominations and splits over and over and over again. And I think it's possible that we're missing out on the fullness of what God has for his church.

And so in our passage today, we're going to look at a central part of Paul's teaching to a diverse and divided church. The church at Rome was full of Jews and Gentiles from different backgrounds and different ideologies and different socioeconomic statuses, and they were having trouble finding unity. They were getting in conflicts over things that to us will look silly, but to them very much were not silly. So before we jump specifically into the passage of Romans 14, I want to do a quick 30,000-foot overview of the entire book of Romans so we don't miss Paul's overarching point. I like to imagine, especially because we're going to be taking communion at the end of service, I like to imagine that the book of Romans was written to a group of diverse, divided Christians around a dinner table with Jesus at the head of the table.

This is God's image for the church. We are all supposed to be sitting around one table with Jesus at the head. In Romans 1-11, the first half of Romans, Paul says, look to Jesus at the head of the table. Remember who he is, what he is like, and why he invited you to the table in the first place, how you got there. Romans 1-11 is all about looking to Jesus at the head of the table. He has brought you into the family of God, not by works, but by faith in the Lord Jesus. No matter what background you come from, slave, free, Jew, Gentile, he has brought, he has invited all of us to sit at the same table by faith in the Lord Jesus. Look to Jesus at the head of the table. That's the first section of Romans.

And then he says, okay, now with that in mind, with that vision of you looking to Jesus at the head of the table, now look around at one another. With the same perspective that Jesus looks at you, look to one another with the same eyes that Jesus looks to you. And Paul believes that a right understanding of who God is will lead us to a right relationship with one another. Pretty simple concept, right? The book of Romans is not that hard to understand. However, much of the American church, we love to study the theology found in Romans. But we often lose sight of why Paul is going so depth in the theology in the first place. Unity. And instead of walking away with Paul's intended vision, we often walk away more divided than ever because we just get in fights over what chapters 1 through 11 say

without ever getting to the application of chapters 12 through 16. There's actually a scholar that I love. If you ever get the chance to read a book by Scott McKnight, I'd encourage you to do so. Scott McKnight just recently wrote a book called Reading Romans Backward. And his whole point is that the theology that Paul lays out in 1 through 11, the whole point of the theology in 1 through 11 is to give a foundation for the application in chapters 12 through 16. So he says, if you start by reading 12 through 16, understanding what Paul's actually trying to communicate in his theology, then we will be less tempted to miss the mark. But instead, we get so fixated on the beauty, the depth, the theology in 1 through 11, and we just like, oh yeah, we'll get to 12 through 16 later.

But the whole point of Paul writing the book of Romans was the application in 12 through 16. The whole reason he slaved on the letter to Romans was so that this divided group of believers would be united. And somehow, we read this book and walk away more divided than ever. Scott summarizes his point here. He says, Paul's mission was to establish churches in the Roman Empire made up of Jews and Gentiles, slaves and free, male and female. His fear was denominations, one Jewish, one Gentile. And his message was peace. This is the point of the book of Romans, that we would be united in the midst of our consequential differences. It's not that the things that we divide over don't matter. It's that they don't matter as much as unity. I know brothers and sisters that I love and I'm thankful for

who literally, they have a master's degree on Romans 1 through 11. But if you look at the way that they treat one another around the table, you would never know that they've even read 12 through 16. And I know brothers and sisters who are the most kind, compassionate, and loving people who are obsessed with the commands in chapters 12 through 16. They're obsessed with the idea about loving people well. But they don't take enough time to look at Jesus at the head of the table and they end up loving people in a way that doesn't actually mirror the love of Jesus. It's a surface level, superficial type of love for one another that isn't rooted in who Jesus is. And others, this is the most heartbreaking version, others are content to leave the table where Jesus is at the head

and start their own little table full of people that look exactly like them, talk exactly like them, act exactly like them, and believe exactly like them. Listen to this, this is going to be hard for us to hear because the command to love your neighbor as yourself is a lot easier when your neighbor looks exactly like you. In all three of these approaches to the letter of Romans, Paul would likely roll his eyes at because his point is that we would all come around the table together with Jesus at the head, that we would look to him, let him define what love is, let him define what truth is, let him define where salvation is found, and then we would look to one another and we would lock arms and find unity in the midst of our diverse opinions over consequential matters.

Does that make sense? All right, so let's dive into the specific text where Paul is going to address a few arguments that are happening in the Roman church. We'll just read it and then we'll kind of unpack it as we go. Romans chapter 14, starting in verse 1, we'll read through verse 12. Paul says, I let you guys off on that. Let's go back. You guys didn't participate at all. I'm just going to breeze past like you guys did it, but you didn't do it. All right, we're going to get back. We're going to read again, and when we get to opinions, everybody say it with me. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. Thank you. One person believes he may eat anything while the weak person eats only vegetables.

Any vegetarians in the room? I'm kidding. I'm kidding. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind that the one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord

and gives thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us will die to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. For to this end, Christ died and lived again. This is the whole point. The whole reason Jesus came, that he might be both Lord of the living and the dead. Why do we pass judgment on our brothers? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will stand before the judgment seat of Christ, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess to God. So then, each of us will give an account to God.

This is the word of the Lord. We're getting there. Love it. So, Paul here is addressing two groups of Christians who have become both either judgmental or hateful towards one another over differences of opinion about how to live out the Christian life. How do we apply the message that Jesus is Lord of our lives? And it's important that we distinguish this morning, we are talking about what the NIV translates, disputable matters. The ESV translated, opinions. Right? We are not talking about the doctrines of the gospel, the things that we cannot divide over. We're talking about opinions, disputable matters. And what happens in the church is we struggle to figure out who gets to define what's an opinion and what's not an opinion, what's a disputable matter and what's not a disputable matter. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15,

these are the non-disputable things. He says, I passed on to you what was most important. This is what we cannot divide over. This is what we cannot water down. What has also been passed on to me that Christ died for our sins just as the Scripture says, that he was buried, that he was raised from the dead on the third day just as the Scripture said. Jesus is the Son of God. He lived a perfect life. He died on the cross to restore us into right relationship with God. These are non-negotiables. You don't get to have an opinion about this if you want to be welcomed into the family of God as a brother and sister. This is family stuff. If we are in the family of God, we submit to the lordship of Jesus.

All of these things are non-negotiable, but pretty much everything after that is a disputable matter. But here's one more non-negotiable. One more non-negotiable is unity, right? Unity is a non-negotiable, and unfortunately, we, many of us in the church, we have made unity a negotiable issue because we have made other negotiable issues non-negotiable. Does that make sense? We have taken opinions that are negotiable, and we said, here, this list of opinions, let me put it on a document. Let me put it in a constitution. Let me put it on a creed. These opinions that I have about God and how people should live in accordance with God, these are non-negotiable, and therefore, I'm going to break unity with these other brothers and sisters who are submitted to the lordship of Jesus who believe all of the non-negotiables

and we say, I can't have unity with that person, and it's so frustrating because unity is a non-negotiable, and some of the things we break unity over are negotiable. So, Paul here, he's addressing this issue. He's saying, you're making too many things non-negotiables. You're making opinionated matters non-opinionated matters, and you're losing sight of the whole point of why Jesus brought you together in the first place. Now, at a surface level reading thousands of years removed from the culture, these arguments seem pretty petty and foolish, right? Eating vegetables, not eating vegetables, what day of the week you do certain things. Seems like a petty argument, but these were anything but that for the Roman church. The food that they felt comfortable or not comfortable eating, the holidays that they thought should be or shouldn't be celebrated

or ignored were highly emotionally charged issues. These were not silly disagreements for them. And I've heard a lot of pastors preach this passage and they apply it to really silly disagreements. And I think that's the worst thing that we can do to this passage is this is not carpet color level disagreements, right? This is not the church dividing over what color the carpet is. Although churches have done that in the past and if you're in that mindset send me an email I'll send you a list of churches that I would love for you to try out. Right? I'm kidding because now I'm convicted because unity. All right. That's why we don't have carpet. Exactly. There's no color to choose. But here's the worst thing we could do is underestimate how important these issues were to these individuals

as we apply the principles to our lives. These were emotionally charged issues. These issues for us are probably more like who should a Christian vote for? Should Christians vote at all? How should Christians think about military service or self-defense? What is your position on the war, the conflict in Israel-Palestine? Should Christians partake in things like alcohol or THC? What level of leadership should women have in the church? What mode of baptism should we perform? Is there a rapture or is there not a rapture? And if there is, when is it going to happen? And on and on the list goes, right? There are tons of things that we as Christians have opinions over and I'm not saying that these things don't matter. They matter a lot but they matter less than unity under the lordship

of Jesus. I think a good test for you to decide what level or what things are you struggling with that are opinions is if you've ever found yourself saying how in the world could a good Christian think blank? How in the world could a good Christian vote for blank? How in the world could a good Christian go to a church that blank? These are the type of issues that we're talking about here. And this is what each of the two groups in this passage were thinking about. They were both looking at each other and saying how in the world could a good Christian eat that meat sacrificed to idols? How in the world could a good Christian go to Sabbath on Sunday or Saturday? How in the world could a good Christian participate in this

pagan Roman holiday? How in the world could a good Christian continue to participate in these Jewish holidays that were all just a shadow of Jesus and now that Jesus has come they don't matter. Right? These were highly emotionally charged issues. I love how Austin Fisher puts this. I'll quote him again. He says, I'm not saying all of our differences are inconsequential. Some of them are very consequential. But if Jesus only holds us together in inconsequential differences that's not very impressive. Back to our table where we all look alike, right? If the church of Jesus Christ is only unifying people that all pretty much look alike, think alike, vote alike, agree with everything they all agree with, then how is the world going to look at that and say, wow, you guys are doing something special.

Right? No, the reason that Jesus said the way the world will know that you are my disciples is by your love for one another is because male and female, slave and free, Jew and Gentile, all of these incredibly diverse people with incredibly different opinions about consequential matters were able to lay down those consequential matters in order to unite for the fact that Jesus is Lord, he's the hope of the world and nothing else matters more than that. So I'm not saying these things aren't important and that we shouldn't have conversations about them, but what I'm saying is if they get in the way of our unity, we've missed the point all together. So Paul makes very clear, he's talking about opinions, disputable matters, there are things that we will separate over, there are things that matter so much

that we have to fight for them and there are other things that we can have a multitude of opinions about. Another thing I want to clarify here is that Paul has two categories of people in mind, he talks about the strong and the weak, a couple clarifying points and then we'll hop into what that means, what believers were strong, what believers were weak and why. The first point I'd like to make is that all of us are probably strong in some areas and weak in others and the second is that Paul is less concerned with who is right and more concerned with awareness. He kind of identifies himself in one of the categories but he's not saying man, if you're strong you're better than the weak, if you're weak you're better than the strong, he's just saying

look, we have categories of people that have different levels of faith when it comes to living out these disputable matters and the best thing that you can do for yourself and for those around you is to figure out where you're at in that category to identify yourself to know yourself to know your brother and sister so that you can better relate to one another the whole point of even making these categories was so that we can better relate to one another does that make sense? Alright, I made a chart to try and explain the weak and the strong I hope that this is helpful it's a man-made chart it's got it's weaknesses it's got its flaws but I think it's helpful essentially what Paul is saying here is there's two different ways that you can end

up separating yourself from communion with God you've got sin, right? there's a line in which God says this is right and this is wrong if you do this it's wrong and the strong believers they're able to kind of go all the way up to the line of sin and live in the freedom of Christ and go to church on a Thursday night rather than a Sunday they're able to like there's gray involved in following Jesus on the strong side and they can kind of get all the way up to the line to rebellion now there's another version of separating from God altogether on the more conservative side on the religious side and the weak tend to gravitate towards that side of religion where if they're not careful they can end up just following a list of rules

and requirements black and white lists and they end up missing God all of together and Paul is saying both sides like there's a certain level where you can go too far on both sides and he's saying but if you're in the middle if you're in this part where you're pursuing God you're finding right relationship with God that it's okay to be on either side just be aware of what side you're on and aware of the way that that impacts your relationship with others the strong they can explore their freedom in Christ without sin they understand the nuance and the beauty of the kingdom of God and they are comfortable with gray some of us in the room are black and white people we are like no thank you just tell me what's right tell me what's wrong

I don't want no gray for me and that's okay that's not necessarily a bad thing the weak they need to stay far away from the line of sin to avoid their conscience being violated they are much more comfortable with the black and the white they are much more comfortable with a list of things that they should do and they shouldn't do does that make sense so these are the two categories of people that we're talking about and what we're going to find out is even though both categories are fine oftentimes they're living in this good space where they're being obedient to God they're doing the things that God's called them to do we can go too far on the strong side we can go too far on the weak side but Paul is addressing these two categories

of people they're living in God's will he's going to say later they're both doing the things that they're doing in order to honor God so if you're doing that you're great you're living in a safe space but you've got to be aware of your propensity you've got to be aware that you're more comfortable living in gray and when you come across a brother or sister who needs more black and white then you have compassion for them you lay down your preferences your priorities and your propensity to win an argument in order to love that person well sometimes you submit to their rules and their regulations so that you don't break fellowship with them because this whole thing is about unity so real quick let me give some practical examples of where I think I'm probably strong

and weak just so that you can see how this plays out and maybe you can begin to think about areas of your life where you're strong or you're weak I think it's helpful first I think personally and maybe it's self-serving to say this on a message on unity but I think I have strength in the area of unity where I can worship with learn from read books from scholars and authors and pastors who I agree or disagree with on a number of things it does not make me uncomfortable to read a commentary from a pastor who I disagree with 90% of their theology but they're a follower of Jesus they love the Lord I can live in that space right does not make me uncomfortable does not violate my conscience now I am extremely weak

when it comes to political matters extremely weak I don't even want to go near it because I know my heart and what it means for me is often I abstain from voting altogether I refuse to say the pledge of allegiance I don't even really like standing for the national anthem and that is not because those things are wrong for certain people it's because I know my heart I know my propensity to over idolize the nation state to put my hope in the government to think that the government is going to solve all of my problems that is an area that I am extremely weak in and so I run to rules I create rules for myself because I know what can happen and many of you you stand for the pledge of allegiance you say

or you stand for the national anthem you say the pledge of allegiance and you do so in good conscience honoring the Lord and I am not saying that you are wrong and I am right I am saying I am weak and you are strong does that make sense okay so now that we got the two categories we understand we're talking about strong and weak but they're all living in a desire to obey the Lord and they're doing it on matters that are disputable they're having these emotionally charged arguments and Paul gives two principles to help them stay rooted in unity in the midst of disagreements principle number one is this it's found in verses one through four Paul says accept one another as family because God in Christ accepts you accept one another welcome one another

as family because that's what God has done for you ask for the one who is weak in faith welcome him don't quarrel over opinions one person believes one thing another believes another who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another it is before his own master that he stands or he falls and he will be upheld for the Lord will make him stand every individual who submitted their lives to Jesus as Lord has been accepted into God's family we are all members of Christ's body adopted into the same family and we are going to spend eternity together so we better figure out how to get along now Paul says look to the head of the table remember when you are lost in sin and brokenness remember that Christ invited you to become a part

of his table freely through his death and resurrection on the cross remember that he just told you to come as you are you're accepted you're loved you are brought into the family of God look to the head of the table and remember that he invited everyone who sits beside you the same way that he invited you they are welcomed fully loved fully accepted now this seems like a basic enough principle shouldn't really struggle to apply it that much right it's a basic principle but we are broken selfish prideful and opinionated people we might agree with this statement intellectually until another Christian has a different opinion on one of our how could a good Christian ever do blank and then all of a sudden you're like you want me to accept that person into my family

anybody have any crazy uncles at the 4th of July picnic this week right this is an earthly illustration of that like they're family they're welcome at the 4th of July picnic even if they're a little wonky on some stuff they're family this is what Paul says about everyone who has submitted their lives to the lordship of Jesus they're family God has accepted them and so you should accept them but we struggle with this as I was studying for this sermon I came across a beautiful illustration well it's actually a really sad illustration but it illustrates this point really well that we agree with this intellectually but when it comes to living it out we struggle with it so Charles Spurgeon famous preacher in London incredible ministry many of you have probably read some of his

sermons I came across this quote in a commentary that I read about this passage this is what Charles Spurgeon says about this idea of accepting one another as family because God has accepted us he says this the term Jesus our Lord seems to draw a circle around all the elect of God the whole host of the redeemed out of every nation kindred and tribe and tongue and people in every land and every age it seems to remind me of a kind of clanship which exists among all believers just as the old highland clansmen when they saw the head of the clan all felt intense enthusiasm at the sight of him for he was the great center and meeting place for all the diverse families in the clan he's saying that is Jesus for those of

us who have submitted to him as Lord Jesus is the great center the one who brings us all together in the midst of our diversity and with him leading them they rushed forward to victory over death victory or death with the utmost enthusiasm so when

your Lord is my Lord so we are brothers and sisters in him and we clasp hands around him and say Jesus our Lord pretty good stuff right pretty good stuff now I read that quote in one commentary and then a couple days later I came across the story where my guy Charles good dude gets it preached a great sermon about unity Spurgeon preaches this powerful message on unity in the midst of consequential differences and yet I came across a story where the second most famous preacher in London alongside of Charles Spurgeon they were good pals for a while they swapped pulpits they worked together in ministry but later in their ministry Spurgeon decided that he could no longer have fellowship with this other pastor because this man had the audacity to go to the theater

can you believe that he went to the theater and Spurgeon said all of this beautiful stuff about Jesus is Lord and we're all clasping hands together except for you sir because you go to the theater so you are not welcome in my family right don't we do this I'm not throwing shade at Charles Spurgeon he's dead he's already he's going to stand before the Lord for judgment it's not

does something that we don't like and all of a sudden it's like unity is important but you go to the theater right unity is important but you voted for Donald Trump I'm going to the other side unity is important but you voted for Joe Biden right like whatever the thing is I'm using this because November is coming and we've got to ground ourselves in this conversation before it happens that unity is really important but Charles Spurgeon preached an incredible sermon on unity and then said you go to the theater dude can't hang out with you now guess what his brother who he persecuted for going to the theater of course that guy was super godly I'm sure he was strong and he said you know what I forgive you no you know what he said

he said Spurgeon you smoke cigars I don't want to have fellowship with you anyway so Spurgeon is like dude you go to the theater our churches can't hang out we can't serve one another anymore And he's like, well, fine, you smoke cigars. That makes you a terrible person too. It's funny until we do the same thing with our own version of that conversation, right? Listen to Paul's diagnosis of how this plays itself out between the strong and the weak. It's exactly what happened with Spurgeon and his fellow pastors. It's exactly what happens with you and I. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. Let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. He says, the temptation for the strong is to hate the weak.

You rule followers, you black and white list makers, you guys are just annoying us. You're making everything harder than it has to be. Leave us alone and let us live in the gray. You guys go sit at your own table in the black and white. You guys are so frustrated. The black and white are like, you guys don't obey anything God tells you to obey. You don't care about any of the rules or any of the regulations. You make up your own stuff. You do whatever you want to do, right? Hatred towards the weak. Judgmental towards the strong. How accurate is Paul's diagnosis of the human heart?

The strong will despise the weak. The weak will become judgmental of the strong. And both responses break the heart of God. Paul's response to both is, the Lord will uphold your brother and your sister. I love this. Listen to this at the end of verse four. Who are we to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld for the Lord is able to make him stand. See, we justify these disagreements. We justify this disunity because we say it's for their own good. We're trying to make sure they don't fall. They're going to fall into sin. They're going to fall into religion. They're going to fall. They're going to fall. They're going to fall. We have to do something about this.

And Paul says, let God parent his children. Let God do it. You're not going to make anybody stand or anybody. Well, you can make people fall. But he says, look, the Lord will hold them up. I only got one kid right now, but I imagine parenting multiple children is a bit more nuanced than parenting one child. I imagine that if the Lord blesses me with a second child, that I am not going to parent that child exactly the way that I parent Rory because they're two unique individuals with unique backgrounds, with unique DNA, like, right? And Paul's saying here, let God parent his kids. Don't break fellowship with your siblings because you think they should live like you and they think you should live like them. It's actually so much better for the family of God that we live together in the midst of

difficult disagreements and unity. We all grow. We all conform to the image of Jesus as we learn from one another. Make sense? All right. Second principle. I didn't even give you time to answer that. I just assumed that it made sense, but we're going on. Number two, don't judge one another because God will judge you both. Now, it's important before we go on that I say we're talking about disputable matters. There are times in which we are called to lovingly bring judgment to our brothers and sisters if they are living in open, unrepentant sin. We're going to talk about that next week. We don't have time for that this week. So, disputable matters, do not judge one another because God will judge you both. Verse 5. One person that seems one day is better than another, while another seems all days alike.

Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. Listen to this. This is beautiful. Paul says, Isn't that beautiful? Paul's point in this section is that both groups believe what they believe and are doing what they are doing in order to honor the Lord. Their motivations are pure and right. Both the weak and the strong are making the decisions they're making. They're having the opinions that they have in order to honor God. And both of them are going to stand before God one day and give an account for the decisions that they made. And both of them are probably going to be wrong on some of the decisions that they made. And God, who is our loving Father and just judge, will work all of that out in the end. It is not our job to figure that out here.

We're all going to be lovingly corrected by Jesus on disputable matters. So let's spend time allowing him to search our hearts and reveal where we are getting things wrong. The less time you spend correcting others, the more time you have to allow Jesus to correct you. And the closer we will all get to the heart of the Father. But I think one of the reasons we struggle with this is, I don't think any of you are like this. It's just me. I believe the best about my motivations, and I assume the worst about the motivations of those who are doing something different than me.

Thanks. Appreciate that. Right? It's like, no, I'm doing, I'm not doing the thing because my heart's in the right place. So therefore, they must be doing the thing because their heart's in the wrong place. And Paul here is very clear in this passage. Both of them have their hearts in the right place. Both groups are doing what they're doing to honor God. And we miss this over and over and over again. All right. I don't have time for that. Okay. So as we begin to kind of land the plane, you guys are going to be proud of me. I withheld some things there. All right. I never do that. I'm proud of myself. Okay. Let's go. Pound the back. Okay. As we begin to land the plane, I want to quickly share five lies that I believe the enemy uses to cause the church to divide over disputable matters.

And full disclosure, I stole this from another pastor, but it was too good not to share. Okay. Number one, we confuse unity with uniformity. We confuse unity with uniformity. We want, in order for unity to happen, we want everybody to believe exactly what we believe, to make the same decisions about disputable matters that we make. And we think, well, if they're different than us, then one of us has to be wrong. And this passage very clearly says, no, you can both be right. You can both honor God in your convictions on matters of opinion. And it's actually better that you live together in the same space. You make each other better. These arguments done in a respectful and helpful way make the body of Christ better. Second, we bind others by our conscience. We have heard from the Lord something that is clear for us to do or not do.

Right? Let's go back to the politics thing. Like, the worst thing that I could do as a weak brother when it comes to politics is tell everybody else they have to live by my conviction. I can tell you why I had that conviction. I can argue with you. I can give you argumental points about why I have come to this conclusion. But if I say, you have to do everything the way that I do it or else you're sinning, I'm making myself judge and juror. And I'm eliminating God from the process. Don't bind others by your conscience. You work out your conscience with the Lord in prayer. And you have conversations with your brothers and sisters who are coming to different conclusions. And you fight for unity in the midst of deep conflict on disputable matters. Third, our preferences become our prejudices. This one hurts.

We often choose where we go to church far more based on our preferences than anything else. But we don't even acknowledge them as preferences. We acknowledge them as the right way to do things. So much of what we do at church is preference-based. And if we allow it to become our prejudice, if we look at other churches who do things differently than we do, if we look at other Christians who do things differently than we do, and we make our preferences our prejudices, we will end up despising people who God called us to sit at the same table. And look, I have a heart, and this will not be easy, and I don't even have a strategic plan for it. I don't know that you can't have a strategic plan for it. But I would love for our church to become more ethnically diverse in the future.

And if we're going to do that, we better be sure we know what our preferences are. And we better be willing to lay them down because so often churches attract the same type of person because we build our ministry and our methodology around our preferences, and we make our preferences our prejudices. We've got to be willing to have an open hand about the type of songs we sing, how often we sing the songs, what happens during worship, what doesn't happen during worship, all of these things. If we're going to welcome a diverse group of people, we cannot make our preferences our prejudices. Fourth, we seek to replace the ministry of the Holy Spirit. Again, Paul says, let God hold them up. Let God deal with them. You don't have to do his job for him.

See, we love the idea of doing God's job for him. It's fun to, like, live it out, but the responsibility is far too big for us to handle. So, do not replace the Holy Spirit in somebody else's life. Lastly, we prioritize winning an argument over winning a person. We'd much rather just be right or convince ourselves that we're right so we can sleep better at night than winning a person, which is the whole point of all of this. People are the point. Unity with one another is the point. So, if we're going to have a church that is successful at reaching a diverse group of people and remains unified and effective, we have to daily choose to accept one another because God has accepted us and not to judge one another over disputable matters because God's going to judge all of us.

Don't hear me saying that you're not allowed to have opinions. Lord knows I have opinions. Lots of them. Just come talk to me afterwards. I will give you all of my opinions on all of the things. Actually, I won't because I'm your pastor and I don't want to cause you to stumble, but I have them. Believe me. You can have your opinions, but make sure your opinions are rooted in prayerful study of God's word and a willingness to listen and submit to the Holy Spirit. So many Christians who think they're strong, think they're strong on an opinion or only strong on that opinion because they haven't even considered what God thinks about it. They've just convinced themselves that they're good. Of course I can do this. Of course I can live this way. Of course I can act this way.

Same thing on the weak, right? The weaks. There are people on weak side who literally have just accepted some man's rules. Some pastor told them, here's the check boxes. Here are the black and whites. And you just say, yeah, that's got to be right. Whichever side you're on, please make sure that your opinions are rooted in God's word. Listening to the Holy Spirit. God, is this what you would have for me to do? Is this how you would have me to live? And then once you form those opinions in that way, bring them with an open hand to a brother or sister who doesn't agree with you. Have a beneficial conversation. Have a meaningful conversation with a brother or sister who disagrees with you on a disputable issue and do so with honor. And you might just find that God uses you

to change their mind. Or God forbid he might use them to change your mind. But the worst case scenario in that hypothetical is you both walk away loving God and loving each other more in the midst of your disagreement. And that, my friends, is Paul's entire point. Chapter 14 and 15. He wraps up, we didn't go through the whole text, but he wraps up his argument. He starts it in 14.1 and he finishes it in 15.7, which he says, therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. This is the point. We'd sit around the same table looking to Jesus at the head, looking to one another in the midst of our disagreements. Disunity grieves the heart of God and it renders the church ineffective of our mission. May we prioritize unity in the midst of diversity. May we have our opinions in open hands.

I think we're, pastoral, I'll just say, I think we're relatively okay at this here, but man, may we not lose sight of it. And may we not have blind spots or think, get comfortable with this. If you're in here and you're not a follower of Jesus, I hope that what you heard today was that God designed his church to be the most welcoming, diverse, and unified place on earth. And we have not lived up to our end of the bargain. Don't hold that against him.

See so many people who refuse to even consider the claims of Jesus because of the failures of the church. If you're in here and if you're struggling with Christianity because you see the way Christians living out the faith, do not hold our actions against him. Consider his words. Consider his invitation to be welcomed to this family, diverse and unified people. Submit to him as Lord. Bring your strengths into our community and help us live out his desire for his church. Welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. Let's pray.

Father, we are so grateful that you have set a table in the presence of our enemies. That you sit at the head of that table and you invite male and female, slave and free, Jew and Gentile, Democrat and Republican.

You invite a diverse group of people from a diverse group of backgrounds all on the one, on the singular basis that we're willing to bow our knee to you as Lord. And if we're really willing to do that, everything else will take care of itself. God, may we be a people who come to that table laying down our opinions, our preferences, bowing our knee to Jesus as Lord whose rules and regulations are love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength and love your neighbor as yourself. God, if we do that well, I know that unity will happen. God, may we be a diverse and unified body that the world around us looks in and sees and says something is different about those people. They're able to have hard conversations

with dignity and with respect. They're able to lock arms with brothers and sisters who don't look like them, talk like them, vote like them, believe certain things that they believe. And yet, they find unity because of their love for this Jesus. God, may we be an effective, unified church for your glory. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.
