A SUMMER'S JOURNEY: Tenses of Salvation
2024-08-05
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=66auCuunxl8

In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.

You guys are going to need to push back your lunch reservations after that time of worship because I'm ready to go. No, I'm just kidding. Kidding, kidding. Hey, for those of you that haven't met me yet, my name is Ryan. I have the privilege of being one of the pastors here. And we are continuing. I know. I know. We're in the homestretch. But we are continuing our very long summer series on the life, ministry, and teachings of the Apostle Paul. This is week 12, and just to break it up, just to give you some hope, some light at the end of the tunnel, we are kicking off this morning kind of a three-week mini-series as we kind of wrap up this series. We're going to be talking about Paul's view of salvation, which I'm really excited about.

I hope this series has been helpful. I hope it's helped you see Paul's writing in the greater context of Paul's ministry. His letters were not written as a direct message from God to you and me for us to cut and paste very small sections of them and put them on coffee mugs and refrigerator magnets and bumper stickers. I'm not opposed to any of those things. They're valuable and good, but that is not the sole purpose of Paul's ministry and his teachings. These were real letters to real people. Paul was encouraging them to live faithful lives to the gospel amid difficult circumstances. And we should work hard. This whole series, the whole goal of this series was an interpretive experiment for us, helping us learn how to interpret the Scriptures in their greater context. Our goal should be to understand the original message that Paul intended for the original recipient to hear and receive,

and then for us to put that message into practice. Because, guess what? We are also real people with real lives, trying to live faithfully to the gospel of Jesus amid difficult circumstances. So much of what Paul had to say to first century believers still applies to us. I had a conversation with a guy in my office a couple days ago. He said, is there a unity problem in our church? He's like, I mean, not any more than any time you have more than three people in a room together. We're pretty good at it. He's like, well, I feel like we talk about, we've been talking about unity a lot. And he's just asking, like, is there a reason? Do I feel the need to talk about unity more than other times? And I said, well, it turns out, and this has been a learning experience for me.

It turns out, when you study Paul in his context, when you understand his biography, and then the letters that he's writing, like, so much. A huge majority. I could summarize almost all of what Paul is trying to get at as trying to bring Jews and Gentiles into unity with one another. But we miss that, because we grab paragraphs of letters of Paul's writing, and we dissect these paragraphs apart from their greater context in the book, and apart from the greater context of Paul's ministry. And we grab phrases, and we apply them directly to our lives, apart from what Paul was intending to get at. And so I hope that throughout this series that you've seen, that reading the Scriptures can be difficult and challenging, but it's worth it. It's so worth it to truly grasp the meaning of exactly what he was trying to say.

So we're almost wrapping up this series. I hope that it's been helpful. We're going to jump in here in just a minute to Paul's view of salvation. But first, let's pray. Father, we are grateful for the opportunity to just stop. Stop the busyness of life. Cast off the concerns, the worries, the fears, the anxiety, the doubt, the anger, the frustration, the confusion. And just quiet our minds and our souls before you today. May your Holy Spirit do what only your Holy Spirit can do in this room. May you convict us of sin. May you remind us of your love, your grace, your forgiveness, your overwhelming abundant kindness. May you help us to see that living for you truly leads to abundant life, and that everything else will fade away. Everything else is building our life on sand.

God, do what only you can do in this place today for your glory and for our good. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you want to follow along with me, I'm going to be in Titus chapter 3 at some point. So Titus chapter 3 is where we will be heading. Who's running computer? Dave, you're running computer. All right. I didn't give you a heads up on this. Wait for my cue to give the images, okay? I don't want to give anything away. No spoilers. We're going to start our message today with some crowd participation. Who loves crowd participation? Yes. All right. So in just a minute, I'm going to put up images on the screen, and what I want you to do is yell out the first thing you see when you see the image.

Does that make sense? If you're listening on podcast, this is not going to be helpful for you. So I'm sorry. All right. Let's go. First image. Yell out the first thing you see. Everyone? Wow. We are a very monolithic people. All right. There are faces, and there is a vase in this image. Sometimes it can be hard to see. All right. Next image. What do we see? All right. That was a little bit more diverse. We've got a duck, and we've got a bunny, right? A rabbit. Two different images. All right. Last but not least. This. This. All right. Mother-in-law is in the room. Know that I did not entitle this painting, but the title of this painting is My Wife and My Mother-in-Law. The artist designed this painting so that you can either see a beautiful young woman in a dress or a older woman with a very large nose.

This one in particular, once you see one or the other, it's really hard to switch perspectives, right? You just kind of get locked in on your image, and you, and Dave, take it down, because they're not going to pay attention to the thing I say. They're trying to show each other the opposite image.

These images, they were created by artists to contain multiple images within one. And oftentimes, once we kind of lock in, once our eyes, our mind, our perception locks into one image, it's hard for us to see the other images. And I share, I open with this illustration because I think the American church, we've oversimplified ideas in the Scripture. We've boiled them down to one image, one picture, one thought, one idea. And the Scripture is so much bigger than our one image, one thought, one idea. And often, there's multiple images built into the Scriptures for different topics, different ideas, especially when it comes to the idea of salvation, which is going to be our topic of discussion today. We boil this idea of salvation down to one image, one picture. And I think, I think what Paul has to say about salvation is so much bigger and broader.

There's multiple images, multiple facets, lots of things going on in the Scripture when it talks about salvation. But the American church, we've oversimplified this idea of salvation, and we only, almost only ever talk about it in the past tense. You go to the church, if you've grown up in church, you often hear people say, I was saved when I was 12, or when I was 15, or at church camp, or after a really bad night in college, or I was saved. When were you saved? Are you guys familiar with this language? Right? We often lock into these images in Scripture. We talk about salvation typically only in the past tense, sometimes in the future tense. And not only that, but we limit this topic of salvation. We limit it to only being the thing that answers our main question, the one question that we

want answered when we look to the Bible about salvation. That is, where will I and my loved ones be when we die? Right? This is like the way that we boil down this huge topic in Scripture about salvation. We boil it down to a past tense experience that answers the question, where will I go when I die? And look, I'm not saying that that Bible doesn't address that. The Bible talks about salvation in the past tense. And the Bible does give us answers to the questions about where we and our loved ones will be when we die. But what I want to make the argument today and over the next three weeks is that's only one image, one small facet of the Bible's grand picture of God's in-progress work of taking rebellious humanity and broken creation and restoring for himself a people who have been

redeemed and will inherit for eternity a renewed heaven and a new earth. Corey's excited. My goal for today is to introduce us to Paul's multifaceted and nuanced concepts of salvation. Paul talks about salvation very broadly with broad brushstrokes. And we grab very short phrases that he talks about in salvation. And we put them in theology books and make them answer questions that he wasn't trying to answer in the text that we grabbed them from. Does that make sense? All right. Paul's multifaceted, nuanced concepts of salvation. We're going to dive a bit deeper into one specific facet this morning. And at the end of all of it, I hope our application will be to be in awe and worship of God as we better understand how great and awesome his salvation is. And I don't have very much time, so we're going to go hard, quick, fast.

All right. Titus chapter three. Starting in verse three, Paul is writing to Titus who he has left to put in leadership over the Christian church. Once, we too were foolish and disobedient. We were misled and we became slaves to many lusts and pleasures. Our lives were full of evil and envy. We hated each other. But, when God, our Savior, revealed his kindness and love, he saved us, not because of the righteous things that we have done, but because of his great mercy. He washed away our sins, giving us a new birth and a new life through the Holy Spirit. He generously poured out the Spirit upon us through Jesus Christ, our Savior. Because of his grace, he made us right in his sight. He gave us confidence that we will inherit eternal life. This is the word of the Lord.

There we go. We're getting there. Thanks be to God. Look, it's really hard. It was, I worked really hard for the last two weeks to try and find a passage of Scripture that gives us the general concept of Paul's broad stroke, broad picture of salvation. And it's really hard to find one passage. And this one doesn't even do it perfectly, but I think it can help us get on the right track. See, Paul regularly talks about salvation in three tenses. He talks about salvation in the past tense. We were saved. You were saved. He talks about salvation in the present tense. You are being saved. And he talks about salvation in the future tense. You will be saved. We can broaden our sources outside of just Paul and say that the entire Bible is one grand narrative

about God's plan of salvation. That is ongoing. It is a process where he is restoring humanity and creation back to himself. Paul, the Bible, talks about salvation as a past tense experience, a present tense thing that is continuing to happen and a future tense thing that will happen. And the thing that I learned as I studied more this week is that Paul actually rarely talks about it in the past or the present tense. He often focuses most of his attention on the future tense. We will be saved. There will come a day. Christ returns. Every tear will be wiped from our eye. There will be no more mourning, no more pain, no more heartache, no more sin, no more guilt, no more fear, no more depression, no more anxiety. We will be saved. And although we use the language, look, this is where it gets even more complicated.

And this is why so many books have been written on this topic. Although we use the language of past, present, and future tense, it's important to note that this is a limiting factor of our human experience. God is not bound by time. The author of salvation is not bound by our restrictions of time. God himself is not linear. So although we experience salvation in a linear way, he does not. He's outside of time. And so the authors of Scripture, they're grasping for any language, any human experience that can help us understand what God has done eternally outside of time. They're trying to help us understand how it works within our limited knowledge and understanding. And every attempt to summarize God's saving work will fall woefully short of what God is actually doing in Christ for you and me.

But you all pay me to try, so we're going to try, all right? So really quickly, I want to run down for the next three weeks we're going to be talking about. This week we'll focus on salvation in the past tense, next week in the present tense, week after in the future tense. But let's just set up the concept for the next couple weeks so we're ready. First, salvation is a past tense event that brings enemies of God from every language, tribe, and tongue into the family of God on the basis of faith in Jesus. Remember, we've talked a lot about the word faith. Faith isn't just some empty phrase that you pray one time in the past. Faith is an act of allegiance to the lordship of Jesus. We are brought into the family of God by saying, I want to submit my life to Jesus as Lord.

I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired. I'm sick and tired of living under my own authority, my own rule, my own reign. It has not worked. It is not working. I'm going to trust Jesus. This is highly relational. It's not just transactional. It's an invitation to be brought into the family of God on the basis of faith. Second, salvation is a present tense experience where in partnership with the Holy Spirit, Christians are continually being renewed into the image of Christ.

Salvation in the present tense says, now that you've been brought into the family of God, progressively you begin to model the values of the family of God outwardly. On day one of being brought into the family of God, you are not going to look a whole lot like Jesus. But there's this invitation to grow into that image over time by the power of the Holy Spirit through faith. Three, salvation is a future tense expectation. See how I did the, I kept it with ease. That was good, right? All right, cool. Well, my salary review is coming up in a couple of months. So if you guys want to give opinions to anybody, that's pretty good if you ask me. All right. Salvation, future tense expectation where Christians wait to receive their eternal inheritance from their heavenly father.

We brought into this family, and with that family comes an eternal inheritance. Everything that the father owns will become ours. And we hear in this beautiful prayer from Jesus, we hear him give us this phrase, may your kingdom come. May your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. That phrase summarizes the tension that we experience between our past and our present tense salvation in light of our future tense salvation. We know that there is a kingdom that is greater than the kingdom of this world. That that kingdom will come eventually. But until then, we pray, we ask God, you move in the midst of our current experience. You demonstrate, you show us your kingdom here on earth. May we be partners of it. The best illustration, the best human illustration I think we have for this three-tenths salvation is that of adoption, right?

Think about an orphan on the streets with no one but themselves, no resources, no family structure, no help, no support. In a moment, in an instant, a loving father invites that orphan to come into their home, to be accepted into their family, to be welcomed with all of the legal rights and status of being a child of that family. That is a past tense experience. Some of you in the room, you've done this, right? You've sat in a courtroom and watched the judge hit the gavel and say, this child is now legally a part of your family. That is past tense salvation. A moment. You've been brought into the family. But now that you've been brought into the family and welcomed into the home, the home is governed by the loving instructions of the parent.

And as you learn to be a child in that family, you will learn what the values, rules, expectations of that family is. That father, that mother will lovingly parent you into growth and maturity. And as a legal child of that family, you will inherit whatever it is that they have in the future. This is the biblical picture of salvation. This is our framework for the next three weeks. Got it? Okay, cool. So now we're going to do a little bit of a deep dive into specifically this past tense salvation. How does it work? What happens? When do we receive it? What does it mean for us? All of these big questions. Well, salvation is a past tense event. It brings enemies. That's an important word for us to focus on. Not just like slightly not as good as we want it to be people.

Enemies. All of us. Enemies of God. From every language, tribe, tongue into the family of God. This salvific work is for all people. It is an invitation to all on the basis of faith. So, before we dive too deep into this point, I've got to even tease out this idea of past tense. Right? Because even this idea of past tense is nuanced and multifaceted. There is, I would say, even three tenses within the past tense of salvation. Eternity past, earthly past, and individual past. So, let's focus on eternity past first. We read this earlier in Ephesians chapter 1. Paul says, Even before God made the world, he loved us and chose us in Christ to be holy and without fault in his eyes. God decided and advanced to adopt us into his own family by bringing us to himself through Jesus Christ.

This is what he wanted to do, and it gave him great pleasure. So, sometime in eternity past, before God ever chose to create or make anything, he knew that we would rebel. That we would break the rules, that we would sin against him, that we would run from him. He knew all of this before he ever created. And yet, Christ, it says in Colossians chapter 1, that Christ participated in creation knowing that we would rebel against him. And knowing that our salvation would require his incarnation and brutal crucifixion on the cross. Eternity past, God decided to create knowing. Jesus participated in creation knowing that we would rebel and knowing that he would have to die. God didn't have to create us, but he chose to create us, flowing out of his generous heart. So important that we get that Christ's death on the cross wasn't some backup plan B when we messed up.

It wasn't something that God was surprised by or shocked by. It was God's eternal plan in creation to demonstrate his love for us in that while we were his enemies, Christ died for us. It was his good pleasure to do so, so that we would understand his great heart of love towards his people. God chose to participate in this past tense salvation by creating us, knowing that we would rebel against him in eternity past. Does that make sense? All right, earthly past. Amazing, wonderful to know that our need for earthly salvation started about 30 seconds after God created the earth. That's a bit hyperbole, but like right after God created the earth, things are good, right? Eden, beautiful picture of unity with God and with creation and with one another. And it lasts a little bit more than 30 seconds.

The rebellion is this rebellion, Adam and Eve choosing to rebel against God, to not take God at his word, to not trust that God is good. This rebellion is called sin. And sin is any action that goes against God's created order, summarized in his two great commandments, to love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. And the ultimate consequence of all sin is death and separation from God. It starts the moment that we're born. Death and separation from God. Romans 5, 12 puts it this way. When Adam sinned, sin entered the world. Adam's sin brought death, and so death spread to everyone for all of us sinned. Our past tense salvation. We didn't need salvation the moment that we lied for the first time.

We needed salvation the moment we were born, because all of creation has been corrupted by Adam and Eve's decision to rebel. And if you feel like you want to hold it against Adam and Eve, you and I would eventually have made the same decision. So, to our individual past. As we can see from Romans 5, and probably know from our own experience, this does not let us off the hook. We don't get to blame shift or play the victim card. We are all complicit in the cosmic rebellion against God. This is where Paul teases out Titus chapter 3. Once, we, too. All of us were foolish. We were disobedient. We were misled, and we became slaves to many lusts and pleasures. Our lives were full of evil and envy, and we hated each other. There's passages like this throughout Paul's literature with different adjectives, but they all say the same thing. All of us participate in rebellion against God.

We choose to make our own desires the God of our lives. We chase after satisfaction, happiness, and fulfillment in anything that we can get our hands on.

What we're ultimately searching for is what the Bible calls shalom, peace. The thing is, we cannot experience shalom or peace without the presence of God in our lives. And so we look for peace in everything but God, and it will not work. It's like striving after the wind, but we try, and we try, and we try, we use, we abuse, we steal, we manipulate, all so that we can find genuine happiness.

And if you think this doesn't describe you, what if I told you that I could project your thoughts, feelings, and actions from the last week onto the screen for the next day? Would we stay? Would you stick around? Probably not, right? All of us, we know this. We're broken. We're sinful. We're selfish. Even at our best moments, we often are aware of our unhelpful motivation for why we're even doing a good thing in the first place.

This is what, for those of you that have been around church, the parable of the prodigal son. You guys familiar with that? Anybody? Raise your hand if you got it. A lot of us. All right. The parable of the prodigal son is all about summarizing our rebellion towards God. There were two sons, a younger son and an older son. They lived with their wealthy father. They were due an inheritance whenever he passed away, but rather than waiting for that, the young son said, Father, I want my inheritance now. He took the inheritance. He left the home, and he squandered his wealth, trying to find pleasure in the things of this world. It ultimately led him to poverty and disaster. And Jesus tells that parable to help us understand our need for salvation, our rebellion. See, the parable of the prodigal son says that it tells us that we want God's possessions without his presence or his preferences.

This is our rebellion. We want God's stuff without God or without his rules. Wow. You guys are, do we not? Wow. That was way better than, like, let me read that again. We want God's possessions without his presence or his preferences. Come on. Come on. All right. Well, okay. And it's interesting to me. Listen to this. Oh, there. It went away. It's interesting to me in a postmodern culture that has been influenced by Christian values that we love the part of God's plan that doesn't have anything to do with him. Many non-Christian people in our secular world, they love to tout the idea of love of neighbor. Turn on any news channel you want and you will see unbelievers talking about how important it is to love your neighbor as long as it is, as long as they're the ones that get to define who your neighbor is.

And as long as they're the ones that get to define what love truly is. They tout love of neighbor. They want everlasting life. You know, we're, like, freezing bodies now. You know that's happening. Right? We want all of God's gifts without God's presence, without his preferences. We want the love of neighbor thing as long as we get to define love and neighbor. And we want everlasting life so much that we'll free. Rich people are freezing their bodies and we're trying to figure out how to upload our consciousness to some cloud somewhere. Right? This is us. This is, like, the culmination of our rebellion against God. We want his possessions without his presence or his preferences. This is the lostness of humanity. This is the disposition of every human heart. And it's in the midst of that rebellion, listen to this, in the midst of that rebellion that God chooses to love us.

This is Titus. We were foolish, disobedient. We were misled. We became slaves. We took our father's stuff and we ran. We hated one another. But when God, our Savior, revealed his kindness and love, he saved us, not because of the righteous things we had done, but because of his mercy. He washed away our sins, giving us a new birth and a new life through the Holy Spirit. He generously poured out his Spirit upon us through Jesus Christ. This is what many are calling the biggest butt in Scripture. Sorry. I genuinely could not resist.

But seriously, how magnificent is it that in the midst of our utter rebellion against God, in the midst of our taking his stuff and running far away from his presence or his preferences, that he runs to us with unconditional love and grace. He makes a way for us to be brought back into the family of God. This is the rest of the story of the prodigal son. When the prodigal son realizes that with all of the father's possessions, he could not find safety, security, love, satisfaction, hope, shalom. He could not find it apart from his father's presence. And when he gets it in his mind that he'll just go back and grovel and beg for forgiveness. And just to be made a slave, the father runs to him. It's in the midst of our utter rebellion and our brokenness that Jesus shows up and invites us back into the family of God.

Many of you know I recently, Marissa and I have our first child, and the poor pastor's kid is just sermon illustrations for days. Luckily, right now, he doesn't know or hear or understand, but one day I'm going to have to, like, run these by him and ask permission. But for now, sorry, buddy. This week, he learned a new toddler skill. And that toddler skill is to point at me, look at me right dead in the face and say, no. Yeah, right? This is infuriating. At first, it was cute. We laughed at it. It was funny the first couple times. Like, oh, you learned a new skill. That's awesome. Fun, fun, fun. And then, like, when I'm doing things for his life and flourishing and happiness, and he looks me in the eye and says, no.

It infuriates me. And I share this because that is exactly what we're doing to God when we rebel against him. He has all of our good pleasure, hope, satisfaction, abundant life, all of it. He wants it so deeply for us. He's inviting us into it. And we look him dead in the face and say, no. And instead of him getting infuriated, he lays down his life for us. He dies in our place for our sins.

This is what past tense salvation is all about when we were God's enemy, when we looked him in the face and said, no, he came to us. And many of us in the face and said, no, he came to us, he came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face. He came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face and said, no, he came to us in the face and said, no.

And this is what Paul means when he says, you have been saved. He often uses other language like you've been justified, you've been washed, you've been adopted, you've been reconciled, you've been born again. These are all Paul's best efforts to put language on what God does at the moment of our salvation. He has forgiven us of our rebellion. He has welcomed us into his family. He has transferred us from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light. We receive his Holy Spirit and from that moment forward, there is therefore now no condemnation for those of us who are in Christ. Nothing can separate us from the love of the Father. And I showed those pictures to show, I think we get too comfortable with this truth. We boil it down to the smallest common denominator.

We talk about it flippantly, past tense language. I was saved when I was 15. We forget how marvelous, how wonderful is our Savior's love for us. Don't make me sing. You don't want to hear it, I promise. Me with the strongest voice is far worse than Marissa with no voice. I might get in trouble for that one later, I don't know. Oh, how marvelous, how wonderful is God's love for us. And yet some of us in the room, we've likely not experienced this salvation yet. Maybe you grew up around church and you think that going to church and doing your best to be a good person makes you a Christian.

You've missed, somebody didn't tell you that you were in utter rebellion against God, that you have taken his possessions and ran from his presence and his preferences. You were totally, utterly separated from God. You can't just get away with coming to church and doing a few good things. That is not salvation. That is not abundant life. That is cheap religion. That is a waste of your time and a waste of our time.

Or maybe you've wandered so far off the path that you think that his grace and forgiveness, you think all of this sounds really great, but it's too good to be true for your life. These are the two subtle lies that I see so often that keep people from experiencing the salvation that the Bible teaches. The first lie is, I'm not that bad. I'm actually a pretty good person.

I'll do, I'll try and do better things. I'll try and love my neighbor better. I'll try and, you know, I'll do the good Christian things. You have rebelled against the loving father. You are pointing at his face and saying no. Even when you do good things, you still fall woefully short of God's invitation to life. And free salvation, forgiveness, acceptance, shalom, is available to you if you would just acknowledge what you're doing and where it's leading you. And the second I see so often, I'm so bad, you don't understand how much I've messed up. I was a Christian at one time, but I've gone so far off the path. I've done so many bad things. Or maybe I've never dealt with the church thing because you don't know where I've been. You don't know what I've done.

This is the parable of the prodigal son. Go home today and read Luke 15. The older brother sticks around, does all the right things, jumps through all the right hoops. And he says, Father, I deserve this. You owe me. I'm pretty good. And the younger brother goes so far off the beaten path. He literally looks at his father in the eye and says, I'd rather you be dead so that I could have your stuff. And when he finally comes back, the father runs to him and embraces him. Both of these are lies. You cannot be pretty good and you cannot be too far gone for God's salvation. Lastly, maybe you're here, you realize you're selfish, you're sinful, but you just can't wrap your head around how one guy dying and raising from the dead 2,000 years ago can do anything for you today.

It's got this like intellectual hang up. I get it. I understand it. This is what Nicodemus is struggling with when he's talking to Jesus in John chapter 3. You guys know the famous verse, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever, yeah. So before that, Jesus is saying, hey, if you want to inherit the kingdom of God, you have to be born again. And Nicodemus says, how can an old man go back into the womb of his mother, right? It's this intellectual hang up. He's got these thoughts in his head that he just can't understand how it is that God could do the thing that God's saying he could do. And I get it. We live in a postmodern culture where there's so much knowledge, so much information, so many theories about all of how life might work.

And I'm just here to tell you that you don't have to fully wrap your head totally around what it is that God's doing to trust him. You don't have to have all the answers. You don't have to check all of the boxes. You just have to have faith. And if you're intellectually honest and you're in here today, you know that every worldview, every ideology, everything that you build your life on requires faith. There are no worldviews that have all of the answers and all of the boxes checked. It's faith. Today, if that's you, if any of those three versions are you and you want to know what it's like to experience the salvation of Jesus, there is a creepy tent over here in the corner.

But it's actually, if you go into it, it's really not that creepy at all. It's kind of warm and welcoming in there. I'll be over there. Some other volunteers will be over there. If you want to know how to experience salvation today, please come and talk to us. We'd love to hear it. All right. Finally, for those of us that have received that salvation, what's an application? You know, I was thinking this week, I'm preaching on salvation to probably a room that like the majority of us in here have experienced it. What's our application? We've already experienced this. We know these things. We understand these things. My application for us, if you've been saved, if you've received past tense salvation, do not let yourself become bored with the beauty, the majesty, and the mystery of your salvation.

I know you've heard all the sermons in the world on John 3.16, Ephesians 2, Romans 3. I get it. I get it. But there's so much more to meditate and to be overwhelmed by. The salvation of Christ.

I think we have a picture of Van Gogh's Starry Night. I'm not a paint guy. I'm not an art guy. I know. I know. Look at me. I've got art critic written all over me.

But this, for whatever reason, this painting just grabs me, right? Like, I could sit here and stare at this painting for hours. It's beautiful. It's incredible. It's complex. It's simple. It's, I'm not going to try and be an art critic up here right now. But just look at it. It's magnificent. This pictures, images like this, they show us the skill, the mastery, the beauty of the creator, of the painter. And that is what salvation is like in Scripture. It's so majestic. It's so beautiful. It's so broad-brushing. It's so much bigger than we can comprehend. We could not wrap our head around it completely. But we try. And here's, I wrote down the line in the song, Calvary's Enough. It says, when I know nothing and when I know too much. And here's my fear. My fear is that for those of us who have been saved for a while, we just know too much.

We've read all the books. We've done all the Bible studies. We know what it means to be saved. No, we don't. We have glimpses. We have pictures. We have images. And I think what we do when we've been saved for a while, when we try and wrap our head around everything, I think what we do is what I did to the starry night this week.

This is my paint-by-number version of the starry night. Isn't it beautiful? Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. But this is what I think we do with our salvation. We put it in these compartments and boxes. And we define it. And we write books about exactly what it means. I read a book, a systematic theology book on salvation this week. And the dude literally puts bullet points in order of what happens in our salvation, when and how. And he's got it all figured out.

I call BS. The dude's way smarter than me. He knows way more than me. And he's probably like 80% there. But there's so much more to God's salvation. And we try and compartmentalize it and color in the boxes ourselves. And I think for some of us, we just need to step back. And we just need to let God be God. Not try and over-theologize and know every answer to every question and put it all in order. I see Christians, we get in big fights about how our salvation works, who gets saved, when, how. The Ephesians 1 passage is spot number A that we all fight about. I read it, and you guys all probably in your head knew which one you believed it was. Some of you are like, I don't even know what he's talking about.

Good, don't worry about it. We just need to step back and be in awe of who God is. We're running further than I thought. Marissa, can you just come up? We'll end with a hymn. Sorry, band. My fault. Tim Mackey. Brilliant scholar. Doctor of theology. Fluent in Hebrew. Could probably just open up the Hebrew text and read English to you out loud. He says this. And this is what I think we need to take away as those of us who have experienced salvation. He says the Bible has much more profound and powerful ways of reflecting on God's character, his anger, and his love than we normally tend to think. It makes more sense to me than ever why the Bible is a book that requires a lifetime of meditation to really experience the character of God.

It's the guy that knows the Bible. It's the guy that knows the Bible way better than we do. And he says the more I study, the more I learn, the more I understand, the more I become aware that the Bible, the salvation that God offers us is a salvation that's worthy of a lifetime of meditation.

Who God is and what he has done for us in Christ is worthy of our worship. It's worthy of a lifetime of our meditation. The Apostle Paul has a very similar, very first century version of Tim Mackey's quote in Romans chapter 11. He says this, Oh, the depth of the riches and the wisdom and the knowledge of God. How unsearchable his judgments, how untraceable his ways for who has known the mind of the Lord or who has been his counselor and who has ever given to God that he should be repaid. For from him and through him and to him are all things to him be the glory forever.

Who has ever given to God that he should be repaid? I talk to people all the time. They're like, I'm just waiting for God to show up and do the thing he promised me that he would do. God does not owe you anything more than he's already given you. Well, I wrote here in my notes. I'll show it to you. I intentionally try to keep this message shorter than normal so we could spend time reflecting in worship. The ship has sailed. The last song we sang before the hymn, Alabaster Jar, she says, There's a lifetime worth of worship in the nuance of your name.

So, if you're here, you haven't experienced salvation, you're curious about what that might look like, we'd love to talk to you up at this very welcoming, hospitable tent after service. And for those of us who have experienced it, I'd invite you just to meditate on the beauty and the glory of God's salvation as we sing about how much Jesus loves us. Just join me in, oh, how I love. Oh, how I love Jesus. Oh, how I love Jesus. Oh, how I love Jesus. Oh, how I love Jesus, oh, how I love Jesus, because He first loved me.

Let me read these words of Paul over you as I send you out into the world this week. Paul says, Let the peace, Let the peace, the shalom of Christ, to which you were also called in one body, rule your hearts and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell richly among you in all wisdom and teaching and admonishing, admonishing one another through psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing to God with gratitude in your hearts. And whatever you do, in word or in deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. Go in peace, church. Go in peace, church. Thank you. Thank you.
