Advent 2024: LOVE
2024-12-09
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vLBvkfIfDjk

Thank you. Well, good morning again. So glad that you all have joined us. I am going to try and talk fast and stay on topic because you all are standing. Now you know how I feel every single week. But I am so thrilled to be a part of a church that makes something like this a priority. There's a new, what's the word? Fad. That's the word I was looking for. There's a new fad in Christian ministry. It pops up on my timeline all the time with pastors that I follow where they call church. And I am, I'm convicted already because I try not to hate on our brothers and sisters in Christ. But I call Sunday mornings a worship experience. And as you can tell this morning, this is not an experience that we curated for you all, right?

Like this is a gathering of God's people around the things of God to agree with the things of God and to do the things of God. And so I just want to say, like, I realize that this is not the greatest experience that we curated for you to come to. But I don't think that that's what church was ever intended to be. And so I'm so grateful to be a part of a church that is willing to sacrifice their comfort in order to do something like this. So we are continuing our Advent series where we light candles in anticipation for, we look back to the promises of God made and fulfilled in Jesus. And we look forward to the future promises of God coming in the second coming. We light these candles to show that God's love has been expressed through his first coming and will fully be expressed in his second coming.

And we do so with anticipation. We light one candle a week. We add to the anticipation, looking forward to light the center candle on Christmas Eve, the Christ candle, to demonstrate that all of it, all of this is heading towards the return of Jesus. So I'm going to light last week's candle, the hope candle. Oh, yeah. And this week's candle for love, maybe. Maybe. What are we doing? We got it. We got it. There we go. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for this day, for this opportunity to reflect on your love. The love that chases us down, fights till we're found. God, and each one of the cots in this room is represented by a person that you created in your image, fearfully and wonderfully. That you love deeply. And we just hope to be some small glimpse of an expression of your love towards them this week.

May they feel it. May they reflect on the fact that they are loved ultimately by you, their creator. May they experience, and like Marissa said, may we experience your love as we seek to demonstrate your love to others. Bless this service. Be present with us. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I do have notes on the back of the bulletin. I know some of you have become keen to that. Don't get used to it because that means that I have to plan early and often. I will do my best. But this week I succeeded. So it's there if you want to follow along. And yes, it looks like a 45-minute sermon. I will do my best to make it 15. I feel like most of the time around Christmas we are usually encouraged to think happy thoughts, to focus on the positive things around us.

But just for a moment, if you would indulge me, I want you to think about the most difficult time in your life. Try and recall the circumstances, the emotions that you were experiencing. For most of us it won't take very long at all for us to flood back into that moment. And some of you are mad at me for even asking you to go there. But now I want you to think about in those most difficult, challenging moments of your life, who did you feel most loved by in those difficult seasons? Probably isn't that hard to bring to mind the person or people that you felt most loved by in your most difficult circumstances. And if you're anything like me, my guess is it's the people that were present with you in the midst of your circumstance.

That were willing to sacrifice their time and energy and to just sit with you in the midst of your difficult circumstances. Text messages, cards, meals, and other acts of love are always appreciated in dark times. So thankful for those expressions of love. But for me, it's physical presence of people in the midst of my suffering that makes me feel most loved. And as a pastor, I'm often called to show up in some of people's most darkest times. And it's in these times as a pastor that I feel the most unequipped to offer anything of any value to people who are going through the most difficult time. But as I have muscled through the difficulty and put myself in some of the people's most darkest times of their life, I have regularly been reminded and affirmed by the people that I showed up for that my presence is really all that is required in dark times.

I didn't have to say anything or do anything. I just had to show up. Which leads me to my main point for today's message. And that is this, that biblical love is most clearly demonstrated through sacrificial presence. Biblical love is most clearly demonstrated. It's not that it's the only way that it's demonstrated. It's most clearly demonstrated through sacrificial presence. Not many actions demonstrate more clearly this truth than the Advent of Jesus. God revealed his love to the world through the presence of Christ. The first Advent, the birth of Jesus was one of the most clearest expressions of God's love to the world. When I think about the sacrificial presence of Christ, I don't know about you, but I typically focus on the cross. But as I thought about this this week, that biblical love is most clearly demonstrated through sacrificial presence,

I realized that the cross is just the culmination of Christ's entire life of love towards you and me. The incarnation in and of itself is an incredible act of love demonstrated through sacrificial presence. 1 John 4, 9 says, God showed us, demonstrated to us how much he loved us. How? By dying on the cross? No. By sending his one and only son into the world. The incarnation is in of itself a sacrificial act of love from God towards you and me. That's what the word Emmanuel is all about. Isaiah 7, 14. The virgin will conceive a child. She will give birth to a son and will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. Sacrificial presence demonstrated in the Advent of Jesus. Lastly, Philippians chapter 2, verses 6 and 7 say this, though he was God, he did not think of equality as God as something to cling to.

Instead, he gave up sacrificially his divine privileges. And what did he do instead? He took on the humble position of a slave and was born a human being. Sacrificial presence of the first Advent of Jesus demonstrates love towards us, towards you and me. God revealed how much he loves us through his sacrificial presence of Christ, laying down his divinity and taking on human flesh. His entire life is an act of love towards us. But it doesn't end there. He actually challenges those of us who would consider ourselves his followers to take up our cross and demonstrate the love that he has shown to us by being sacrificially present for others. So God's love was revealed to us through the presence of Christ in the first Advent, the first coming of Jesus. And God is revealing his love to the world through the presence of his Holy Spirit by us, the church.

It's the invitation for us to participate in the love that he has already demonstrated to us. Although God isn't physically present on earth at the moment, he has empowered his church to demonstrate his love through our sacrificial presence to the lives of those around us. That's what this week is all about for our church. This Watch Sunday is one of my favorite Sundays of the year because we have the opportunity to show up sacrificially and be present in the lives of those in our community who are hurting. First John 4, 11 through 12 says, dear friends, since God loved us so much, we surely, we must, we ought to love each other. No one has ever seen God. No one's ever seen God physically present. None of us in this room have physically seen the presence of God.

But if we love each other, God lives in us and his love is brought to full expression in us. People can see how much God loves the world by us as the church being willing to sacrificially be present in the lives of those who are hurting. If you're here and you're a follower of Jesus, your job is to model the love of Christ to others through sacrificial presence. And my guess is that most of us would say that we could probably do a little bit better of a job. Anybody else? Am I the only one? Sacrificial presence is not typically what, I've got my job review tonight. And if I'm supposed to rank my strengths and weaknesses, I would not put sacrificial presence to those in need as my top strength. And if you're in here and that's you, praise the Lord.

But for the rest of us, I have a couple quick practical things that we can do to better show up sacrificially for those who are in need. Really quickly, three things that we can do to be better sacrificially present to those around us. First, we have to be sacrificially present to God. This is all from the example of Jesus. Jesus, we read this in Luke 5 verse 16. But Jesus often withdrew to the wilderness for prayer. If we want to be sacrificially present to others like Jesus is sacrificially present to us, we have to follow his example. We have to take time and intention to get alone and be with God in prayer. Because in order for us to pour out God's love to others, we have to first receive God's love from him. Jesus was able to be sacrificially present to others because he had a regular pattern of getting away with God.

And he had to withdraw because there was always constant needs around him. Anybody else have constant needs around you? If you want to be a person of love, you have to follow the example of Jesus and sacrificially withdraw. Say no to some things that can be said no to for a moment so that you can get away. Maybe say no to a little bit of sleep. I know, don't throw any rocks at me. Do something. In order for us to be present with God, it's often going to take us to make sacrifices. If we want to be a people of love, we have to regularly and sacrificially be present to God. Second, we have to be sacrificially present to ourselves. Now, this might seem a bit counterintuitive if you grew up in the church. I grew up in the church and it was like sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice.

But if we look at the Old Testament Scriptures, God built in self-reflection and rest into the weekly rhythms of the Jewish people. Because he knew that humans needed to rest in order to be present to themselves so that they could be present to others. Mark 6.31. Then Jesus said, let us go off. He's talking to his disciples after a long, hard week of ministry. Let us go off by ourselves to a quiet place and rest a while. He said this because there were so many people coming and going and Jesus and his apostles didn't even have time to eat. Parents of toddlers in the room said, amen. We have to be present to ourselves. We have to have time of rest and self-reflection. We have to know where we're at so we can love others.

It will mean we have to pay attention to how we spend our time, energy, and attention. This past week, as I was preparing for this message, I caught myself doing what millennials have called the doom scroll. Two or three times. I'm like an hour into it and I wake up from my stupor and I'm like, what just happened? Anybody else or just me? Okay, cool. But as I came out of that, I literally said to myself, okay, I am going to be a less loving person tonight and tomorrow because of what I just did with my time there. If I want to be a person who demonstrates the love of God, I have to be present to myself. I have to understand what I'm doing with my time and attention and what type of person that is forming me into.

We have to be present to God, ourselves, and then finally, that fuels us to be present to others. We are invited to sacrificially love others. But we should seek to do so from a full tank. The best ministry happens out of the overflow of our heart. Now, that being said, that does not mean that we can say no to a ministry that God is calling us to because we don't feel like it. There's a tension here. There's a balance here. And I do this because in Mark 6, 34, three verses after the verse where we read, Jesus told his disciples to go take a rest. They needed a rest. They go on their way to the rest. And again, parents of toddlers will understand this and experience this. On their way to rest, it says this, Jesus saw a huge crowd.

And as he stepped from the boat, he had compassion on them because they were like sheep without shepherd. He needed rest. The disciples needed rest. But the people needed his presence more. This is the tension, right? How do we decide when we need to rest and when we need to just, by the power of the Holy Spirit, go and do what God's calling us to do? Holy Spirit is the short answer. We can figure that out later. Followers of Jesus were invited to sacrificially serve others the way Jesus has loved us so that the world can know that God's love for them. 1 John 3, 16, my favorite verse for weddings. We know what real love is because Jesus gave up his life for us. So we also ought to sacrificially give up our lives for our brothers and sisters. Because Jesus sacrificially loved us, we can go and sacrificially love others.

I think I'm doing really great. Yes. I know this seems like a daunting task, but the good news is that this job, our job, to be sacrificially present to those around us, it's a temp job. Anybody ever had a temp job before? Right? It's a temp job. This isn't permanent. And we're not stuck in this cycle because thirdly and finally, God will fully and eternally reveal his love to the world by his physical presence returning from heaven to earth. The first Advent was just a taste, just a glimpse of God's love for us. And ultimately, it will be fully revealed to us when Christ returns his second coming and sets up his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven for eternity. And then it will be our job just to reflect his love to those around us.

The revelation of God's love is being progressively revealed through his sacrificial presence. It was surprisingly revealed through the first Advent. It is being revealed through the presence of the Holy Spirit in the church now, and it will be fully revealed at the second Advent of Jesus. Again, 1 John. If you want homework this week, just read the book of 1 John, and you will be smacked in the face with the word love over and over and over again. He says, dear friends, we are already God's children, but he has not yet shown us what we will be like when Christ appears. We do not know, but we do know that we will be like him, for we will see him as he really is. Physical presence. And all who have this hope, this eager expectation, will keep themselves pure, just as he is pure.

Advent is a season where we look back to the sacrificial presence of Christ through his incarnation. And we seek to be a visible representation of Jesus in this present world through the power of the Holy Spirit, as we look forward with anticipation to the second Advent of Jesus in the future. Biblical love is most clearly demonstrated through sacrificial presence. Church, may we be a people who regularly receive God's love through presence with him. May we extend God's love through sacrificial presence to others as we eagerly await the final revealing of God's love, when his presence will fully return at the second coming. Pray. Father, I thank you. Father, I thank you. I thank you for your love. That you don't just ask us to figure out what the word love means on our own. God, we live in a culture where there's so many different definitions for the word of love.

God, there's distortions. The enemy takes what you have created and distorts it. And we embrace these ideas that are kind of like biblical love, but not really. But you demonstrated what biblical love is through your sacrificial presence. May we receive that today. May we receive that this week. May we be a people that sacrificially get away and receive the love of God, the reckless, overwhelming, never-ending, reckless love of God over us. And may we be willing to take that love that we've received and sacrificially lay that love on the line for those around us in need. God, may we be a people that get to see your kingdom more visibly on earth as it is in heaven through our obedience and through your supernatural power. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.
