FASTING: To Grow in Holiness
2024-02-26
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K-QPIYPa_d8

To fast is to hunger for more of God. We fast to offer our whole selves, including our whole body, to God. To grow in holiness. To amplify our prayers. And to stand with the poor. Fasting is one of the most essential and powerful of all the practices of Jesus. It's an ancient discipline whose time has come.

Good morning, Canvas Church. Hi. If I haven't met you yet, my name is Michelle Meeks. I'm the children's pastor here at Canvas. And this morning I'm beyond humbled to get to talk with you about fasting. If you haven't been here last week, we are on a four-week sermon series and we're focusing on fasting, which, to be totally honest with you, this is by far the hardest message. I haven't done this a lot, but this one's the hardest because it's a concept that we're not really used to. It's a concept that I wasn't really used to, but I'm thrilled that I get to come and share with you what Jesus has been teaching me through this. So before I begin, let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, I thank you for the gift of fasting, for this practice that you've given us to draw closer to you.

God, I pray that every word that comes out of my mouth will be from you and that everything that you want to be heard this morning will come through clearly. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So before I start talking about fasting, I have a question. How many of you have heard or seen the movie End of the Spear? Anybody? Ryan. That's good. Okay, we got a couple. We got a couple. If you haven't, it's an older movie. It's probably like 15 years old by now. It's a really good, powerful movie. But I grew up in a church denomination called CMA, which stands for Christian Missionary Alliance. So as you can imagine, missionaries were a big part of our church. We sponsored missionaries. I went on several missions trips. And a story that I was taught when I was really young is the true story that the movie End of the Spear is based on.

And so it goes that there were five missionary men who were all pilots. And in 1956, they moved themselves and their whole families over to the Amazon area. And their goal was to infiltrate some tribes that had never heard the gospel because they were really dangerous tribes. So people hadn't been able to get to them to translate the Bible into their language. They hadn't heard the gospel. And so that was the goal of these five men. So originally, because they knew these tribes were really dangerous, they would fly their planes really low and drop off supplies at these villages. Almost like a truce letting them know, we are your friends. We're here to help you, trying to break that barrier down. But these men felt very called to land and talk with these people to get to know them.

They knew that it was dangerous. They didn't even tell their supervisors that this was their plan because they knew that they'd be told no because it's too dangerous. But they did it anyway. The movie is based specifically on Nate Saint. He's one of the five and he's kind of the lead character in the movie. So even though they knew that they were risking their lives, they had children, they had spouses, they do this and they land. And at first it goes really well. They had learned a couple words and they use those words saying friend and peace and things like that. And it goes well. So they're so excited. And they're like rejoicing and cheering. And what happens though is the tribal men that they met went back and told the leader what was going on.

Well, the leader didn't like this very much. And he said, oh, no, they have to go. So as they're rejoicing that the initial meet went well, they come back with spears and all five men end up being killed. Sorry, that's a really somber start. But if you get a chance, watch the movie because what God does with their sacrifice is amazing. But I remember, I think I was around 10 when I heard this for the first time. And I remember thinking, how do you get to your walk with Jesus that you're at the place that they were at, that you're willing, no matter what the cost, to lay down your life for Jesus? Because the most important thing to those five men were, what does Jesus want me to do? And if I have to sacrifice my life, that's okay, because I want the gospel to be shared.

And the gospel is eventually shared. I'm going to say anything else. Watch the movie. It's really good. And like I said, it's a true story. Actually, Nate Saint's son came to Liberty University when I was there and spoke with one of the tribal men that killed his dad. They're, they have this relationship and it's so good. You have to watch the movie. But that story and that question of, am I there yet? Like, am I at the point with Jesus where I would lay down my life for him? Where I would, where that's the most important thing in my life. It's sort of stuck with me my whole life and I check in with myself every now and then, like, all right, am I there yet? Have I reached that level of love for Jesus?

And it's something that's like a life goal for me. Not that I have like a death wish or something, but I really want God to be number one in my life, in every area, body, soul, and mind. So fast forward to about four months ago, I heard a sermon about getting away for a while and this guy went and see pastor, he stays in a cabin and gets away from all life's things that bog you down. And one of the things that he does is fasting. And I remember hearing this message and it was really powerful. And I decided that I wanted to try fasting. This was before I knew we were doing the series or anything because I wanted, again, that level of intimacy with Jesus. But I got about 12 hours into my fast and I got really irritated because I was like, I don't get this.

This does not make any sense. Like, I'm really hungry. I don't feel any closer to God. My kids keep eating and they're annoying me that they're eating. And I don't see the correlation. Like, I'm just being totally honest with you. I wanted to grow closer to God, but being hungry, it made no sense to me how you get from hunger drawing you close to Jesus. And I'm one of those people that if it doesn't make sense to me, I'm going to figure it out or I'm not going to do it. So I finished the fast out of a really bad heart set. But I started to research and started to read and started to try to understand how fasting helps you grow closer to God. And then about two months into that, Ryan told me we're doing this series and asked me if I would want to share a message with you.

And that's when I knew that God had been preparing me that whole time. So the things that I was learning, I get to share with you this morning. So those are the two questions I hope to answer this morning is how do we get to a place where Jesus is the highest priority, most important thing in our life? And how does fasting help us get there? So first off, if you've ever tried to fast, you know that fasting is a form of denying yourself, right? You're really hungry, but you deny yourself food. So let's look at what the Bible says and what Jesus specifically says about denying yourself. If you look at Matthew 16, 24, Jesus says, whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves, take up their cross, and follow me. A couple of really interesting things about this.

This is a pretty popular Scripture verse. One thing that I found interesting is Jesus hadn't been crucified yet. So the fact that he says, take up your cross and follow me, the disciples had to have been like, I mean, obviously they knew what crucifixion was, but they didn't quite grasp that Jesus was going to die, and especially not on a cross. So that probably didn't make a ton of sense to them. But I want to go back a few Scripture verses before this, because it makes this make even more sense. So if we look at Matthew 16, 21 through 24, it says, So this is the first time he's told the disciples that his mission is to die and to be raised again. So this had to have been shocking. They're expecting, King of kings, Lord of lords, you're going to take over Rome.

We're going to be back in control. And now he's telling them that his mission is to actually sacrifice his life. Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. Never, Lord, he said, this shall never happen to you. Jesus turned and said to Peter, get behind me, Satan. You are a stumbling block to me. You do not have in mind the concerns of God, but merely human concerns. Poor Peter. That's not a fun thing for Jesus to call you. And it's not, obviously, Peter wasn't possessed with Satan all of a sudden. He, but Jesus was saying, this self-denial that I'm about to do, and it was a self-denial for Jesus. He sweat droplets of blood hours before he was taken into custody. He was going to feel every ounce of pain that you and I would have felt.

So he had strong urges to not feel that pain, but he knew in order to fulfill the mission, he had to deny himself and allow himself to be crucified. So when Peter says, absolutely not, I won't let you, and he refers to him as Satan, he's saying, anything that's keeping me from fulfilling my mission, which is denying myself, is Satan's desire. Because who of all would want Jesus to not crucify himself on the cross, but Satan, because that division, the breakage between sin and God, is because Jesus sacrificed himself. And then verse 24, it says, Jesus said to his disciples, whoever wants to be my disciple must deny himself, take up their cross, and follow me. For whoever wants to save their life will lose it, but whoever loses their life for me will find it.

What good will it be for someone to gain the whole world, yet forfeit their soul? Or what can anyone give in exchange for their soul? For the Son of Man is going to come in his Father's glory with his angels, and then he will reward each person according to what they have done. So Jesus is explaining what you think is good for man is not. I'm telling you, if you really want good, you will deny yourself and follow me. In reality, in our Western culture, we don't have very many ways that we have to deny ourselves, right? We see the stories of war going on in other countries and things like that, and they clearly have to deny themselves things all the time. But here in America, we don't have too many ways we deny ourselves.

Actually, it's kind of the complete opposite. Our world is wrapped up in this thing called what Freud, Freud knew everything, I'm just going to eat it. Freud calls the pleasure principle, and that's what we're living on. The pleasure principle is the instinctive seeking of physical and avoiding, of physical, I'm sorry. The instinctive seeking of pleasure and avoiding of pain to satisfy biological and psychological needs. In other words, focusing on doing what feels good in the moment. That's what our culture pushes. If it feels good, do it. Don't worry about repercussions. And it sounds good, right? Like, that doesn't sound awful. I think it's supposed to sound awful, because I'm saying it from here, but it doesn't sound awful. Like, if it feels good, do it. Why not? Right? But we don't think about the effect that this has, because in reality, what feels good in the short term often reaps damage in the long term.

And more importantly, and what we're going to talk about today, is constantly supplying your body and mind with short-term earthly pleasures slowly quiets and eventually mutes the voice of God and the desire for heavenly things. We've gotten so accustomed to filling every need immediately with an earthly pleasure that we have no more room for God to fill us. Right? Like, have you ever felt like you've gone through an entire day and, like, nothing really happened? Like, you just, okay, I'm hungry, I eat. I am sad about something. I immediately turn on a show, or I listen to a song, or I, in my situation, call my mom, and she will make it better. Like, I don't, I just fill it immediately with whatever I can so that I don't have to feel anything. And, at the end of the day, I didn't get any further along in my walk to be closer to God, because everything was filled with earthly things.

Have you ever got to a point in your relationship with God where you feel like you're knee-deep in water? And you're like, is this it? Is this as far as we get to go with Jesus? Is this what Christianity is all about? And I think a lot of that is because we don't leave room for Him to fill us. And this is where the question of why fast comes into play. Fasting is a tangible, practical way to deny yourself, as Jesus says, and wake up before we spend our entire lives going from one earthly pleasure to the next until we die. Because that's Satan's goal. If he can keep us numb enough and filled enough in a false sense of fulfillment with earthly pleasures, to a point that we never let God infiltrate our lives or have any impact on us, until we die, we've remained lukewarm our entire lives.

We've remained knee-deep in this water that we think is all that Christianity has to offer when Jesus is saying, I have so much more to give you, but you won't give yourself a second to think and allow me to speak to you or allow me to fill those needs that you think you're filling with earthly things. Because in reality, earthly things don't work, right? We know that. Even though we keep doing it, we know that these earthly things that we're trying don't help. For example, I'm going to look at one of the easiest things that we do to bring ourselves pleasure, which can be, obviously, we need food, but then overeating. Have you ever had one of those, like, I'm having an awful day and I'm just going to stuff myself silly because I don't care and it will make me happy?

Okay, so this is what happens to you when you overeat biologically. Overeating causes the stomach to expand beyond its normal size to adjust to the large amounts of food. The expanded stomach pushes against other organs, making you feel uncomfortable. You felt that. That's the, like, stuffed feeling. This discomfort can take the form of feeling tired, sluggish, or drowsy. Eating too much food requires your organs to work harder. To break down the food, the stomach produces hydraulic acid, resulting in heartburn. And metabolism may speed up as it tries to burn off those extra calories and you experience a temporary feeling of being hot, sweaty, or even dizzy. Sorry, Ryan, I'm going to tell your story. Ryan was, I was sharing this with him and he said that he remembers going to a Brazilian steakhouse and stuffing himself silly with all kinds of, like, red meat and stuff.

And then that night, he couldn't sleep. He woke up and he was, like, drenched in sweat and dizzy and nauseous and all of that stuff. That's because our bodies are not meant to take in that much at that pace. And then overeating can make it hard for you to sleep at night, which, if you don't have sleep, then the next morning you're grouchy and irritated. Chronic overeating can produce obesity, insulin resistance, which increases your risk for heart attack, stroke, and diabetes. So the more that you engage in these earthly pleasures to fill you, the further and further you get down this path of actually being happy. It does the opposite. And now, obviously, God has given us this earth and it is full of earthly pleasures for us to enjoy. This is certainly not a, if you do anything that makes you happy, God's mad at you, message.

But it's when we do, when that is our only form of gaining happiness and we suck away the desire for Jesus because we fill it with this, that's what I'm talking about this morning. And after a while, you start to feel depressed, anxious, and you can't put your finger on it, right? You're like, nothing's really wrong. Why am I so depressed? Why can't I, why don't I want to get out of bed? And this is the cycle that fulfilling these pleasure principles all the time brings you to. We are often numb both to God and to our own lives. And Jesus knows this. He knows that this is what these pleasures are going to give us. And so he's constantly telling us to wake up, to stay awake, to be vigilant, and to be alert to a deeper reality.

And this is what fasting does. Fasting is a spiritual practice that wakes us up. It stops us in our track. It stops us, because I'm telling you what, if you want to be awake, be hungry. It's really hard to sleep. And it stops you from fulfilling yourself with these earthly pleasures if you can't eat when you're hungry. And it makes you stop and think, what is it that I'm doing with my life, and where does God actually want me to be? This morning, I was asked to talk to you about how fasting helps you grow in holiness. Well, in order to do that, I want to explain what the word holiness means, because it's kind of an interesting biblical word. So what does it mean? If you look at Isaiah 6, 3, Isaiah was a prophet from the Old Testament, and he's just been given a mission by God, and he gets this mission through a vision.

So Isaiah gets to go into heaven in his vision, and he sees God sitting on his throne. And there are serabim, which is like the highest of angels on both sides of him, and they're singing in loud voices, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. That word holy, the repetition is not like we sing in a song. It's emphasizing the fact that God is holy, holy, holy. Think about it like if you went to like a weightlifting competition, and you were like, that guy over there is huge, huge, huge. Like, he's emphasizing it, that this is a really, really, really holy God, because he is the holiest of all. The word holy comes from the Hebrew word kadash, which means to cut. To be holy means to be cut off or separate from everything else.

It means to be in a class of your own, distinct from anything that has ever existed or will ever exist. God is holy. There is never going to be anything more holy than him. He is in a class of his own, in a class that no one will ever surpass his holiness. But what we don't think about very often is that because holiness is in the essence of God's character, it becomes our calling as his children, too. We are the apprentice of Jesus. If Jesus is holy, we are called to be holy, which is such a weird concept. But we are called to be set apart from the rest of the world. Look at 1 Peter 1, 14 through 16. It says, As obedient children, do not conform to the evil desires you had when you lived in ignorance.

But just as he who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do. For it is written, be holy, because I am holy. We are called to be set apart in a class of our own. Not because Jesus is mean and he wants us to not get to enjoy the earthly pleasures. He created the earth and all the pleasures that come with it. But because he knows that these pleasures aren't going to work and that they're going to give us a fake sense of fulfillment. So he's trying to rescue us from getting in this cycle that we often get into where these pleasures give us this fake sense of fulfillment. But this doesn't come naturally. We are going to constantly be pulled back to those earthly pleasures, which is why fasting is so important.

Ryan talked last week about how fasting used to be something that all Christians did, or most. If you wanted to reach a certain level with God, you fasted, usually once or twice a week. And St. Leo the Great, who was the Bishop of Rome in the 5th century, describes fasting as this. Fasting gives you strength against sin, represses evil desires, repels temptation, humbles pride, cools anger, and fosters all the inclinations of a goodwill, even unto the practice of every virtue. That's a high standard for anything, to do all of these things. So the question is, how? How does fasting do all of these things? Because I want all of these. I want to have, resist temptation and cool anger and humbles pride. So in our Western society, we often think of our relationship with God as just spiritual, or even in our minds, right?

So we read our Bible, we pray, we sing, we worship. All of these things are spiritual or helping us grow in knowledge with God. But we're forgetting something that's extremely important in our walk with God. And I think this is why I was so confused how being hungry was going to help me grow closer to God, right? Because I understand if I read my Bible, I get to know God. He reveals himself to me in the Scriptures. If I worship, if I go to church, if I do these things, it makes sense that my relationship with God will grow. But being hungry didn't make any sense to me whatsoever. However, this is not how the Bible describes our relationship with God and how it's supposed to be. The Bible doesn't describe our relationship as merely spiritual.

In 1 Corinthians 6.19, it says, Do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit? Who is in you? Whom you have received from God. What is a temple of the Holy Spirit? Our bodies, our physical bodies. I grew up with the idea that your bodies really didn't mean anything, right? They were just what you have while on earth. And when you go to heaven, they'll be thrown away. And your spirit is what lived on. But the Bible makes it very clear that your bodies were not only created in God's image, created by God specifically for you, but they are also temples of the Holy Spirit. If your body is a temple for the Holy Spirit, then it should be easy to resist sin, right? Because he's living in us. So this should be like an easy thing.

We shouldn't even want to sin. However, there's another side to the coin. Your body is also infected with sin, which is the part of you that's pulling you away from God constantly. This is where the struggle comes into play. Paul says it so clearly in this passage, but the word do is said so many times. So hang with me. It's a really hard passage to read, but it's really good. He talks about the struggle between wanting to do the will of God and the struggle to your body wanting to sin. So Romans 7, 15 through 24 says, I do not understand what I do. For what I want to do, I do not do. But what I hate, I do. For I know that good itself does not dwell in me. That is in my sinful nature.

For I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out. For I do not do the good I want to do, but the evil I do not want to do. I told you so many do's. This I keep on doing, but we feel that, right? Like I have the desire to do this good, but I just keep messing it up. For in my inner being, I delight in God's law, but I see another law at work in me, raging war against the law of my mind and making me a prisoner of this law of sin at work within me. What a wretched man I am. Who will rescue me from this body? That is subject to death. Like, couldn't say it better than this. What we want to do, we don't do.

And what we don't want to do, we keep on doing. Have you guys ever seen those commercials of people on their cell phones? They're like really depressing. Like the kids are trying to get their parents' attention and the parents are looking at their cell phones and then the couple's out on a date and neither of them are talking because they're looking at their cell phones and it's saying like, stop looking at your cell phones. And you're like, ugh, that's awful. I am not going to look at my cell phone. I'm going to focus on my children and I'm going to look at my husband and I'm putting my phone down and then 20 minutes later, your phone goes off and you look at text message and then you go on Facebook and then you go on Yahoo

and you're like, oh, shoot. It was 20 minutes of me not looking at my phone and I'm already back to doing the exact same thing. What I want to do, I don't do. What I do not want to do, I keep on doing it. And that's what Paul's saying. We are constantly being pulled back to these sinful desires. Because our body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, but we are also fighting this sin. The sin part of us, Paul refers to as flesh. The flesh is the part of you that drives you towards food, laziness, lust, instant gratification, power, control, and it pulls us away from the things that God has from us. But our fight is not against our body. This is not a message about self-torture. You're not supposed to beat up your body

so that it will align right with God. It's actually for your body. It is against that flesh, that sinful nature that pulls us away from God. So how do we starve our flesh and feed our spirit? Well, I said before that we're apprentices of Jesus, right? So we need to look at what Jesus did and draw on the power of the Holy Spirit like he did. Fasting is an essential practice that helps us crucify our flesh and bring our bodies back into an alignment with God that dwells within us. Think of it like this, and this is probably the best way I can explain it. Fasting is a way to train your body to be in an alignment with your spirit. Do we have any runners here? I know we have Shauna. Where's Shauna? Well, she used to be a runner.

No, the other one. Sorry. Corn. It's multiple Shaunas. She used to be a runner, and then I made her break her ankle. She must... I don't know where she is. Anyways, she fell at a kid's event and broke her ankle. It was really bad. But she runs like 50-mile races. If you are a runner, you know you cannot get up one morning and go to a marathon and run 26.2 miles. That's how the word marathon came to be. The first guy that ran 26.2 miles died on the spot when he got at the end of it. You can't do that. Your body hasn't been trained, right? You have to start slow. It's not fun. If you've ever started running and you're not a runner, you know it's miserable. Every part of you wants to stop.

And then for weeks later, your body's mad at you for what you put it through in that one-whole-mile run. But it takes time. You have to train. You have to start small, work big. My daughter's a gymnast. She's actually at a meet right now. So, like, internally, I'm nervous for her there, too. But I have this... I've been to so many of her meets. She's in the gym 16 hours a week every single week. And I have this recurring dream that I am on her team. And so I get up to the balance beam, and it's my turn. And I'm like, I can't do this. And the coach is like, go. It's your turn. And I can't even do a cartwheel on regular ground, let alone a back handspring on a little tiny beam. And I just remember being terrified that I'm like,

I have no idea what to do. I can't even stand on this thing and thing. Because I haven't trained. McKinley is 11, and she can do these things that I could never do because of the amount of training that she's gone into. That's what fasting does for you and I. It is a training tool to train our bodies to be able to be in pain and still rely on God. This is the most important part that I hope that I'm able to portray to you.

If we can train our bodies that we are okay feeling in discomfort and we still lean on God in our discomfort, it translates to the rest of our lives. If in this moment I chose not to eat and I was okay and God was still there for me, it translates into I'm having a moment where I'm in need or I have no patience for this or God's not answering this prayer. We go back to the feeling that we had when we were in fasting and we're like, okay, I can have patience because in this moment I wasn't feeling great, but God got me through it. In this moment in real life, I'm not loving how this is going, but God's getting me through it. And I'm going to tell you four steps on how you get there,

but first, quick recap. Number one, we are called to deny ourselves because the Savior of the world denied himself all the way to the cross. And he asks us to deny ourselves, not because he's mean and he wants to keep us from the things of this world, but because he knows the things of this world do not work. They give us a false sense of fullness, which is why we're left depressed and anxious and worried and we can't figure out why. We are called to be set apart. We are called to be holy because God is holy. So we are called to do things differently than the rest of the world. We have two desires pulling at us. We have our fleshly sinful desire that is pulling us towards all the temptations of the world.

And then we have our spirit, which knows that we need to be close to Jesus and we need to lean on him for these desires that we have. And then finally, fasting is a way to train our bodies, just like reading Scripture trains your spirit, just like worship draws you closer to God. Fasting is a way to train your body to line up with your spirit as well. And here's how it works. Number one, fasting weans you off the pleasure principle. Talked about the pleasure principle a lot, that it's that desire to do what feels good in the moment, no matter what the consequences are. Fasting doesn't allow you to do this. When you're fasting, you have to constantly resist this urge and remain hungry, right? It is a way for us to deny ourselves

when we normally have no need to deny ourselves. We have to learn to be okay with being hungry. You are teaching yourself that you can do the right thing, even if it's hard. So that feeling of hunger that you get when you're like, this is stupid, I just want to eat, this isn't helping at all. It's teaching your body that even when things are hard, you can resist it and you can keep going. This is temporary. Isn't that how things go in life? It feels like it's never going to end. And when you have 12 more hours of not eating, it's going to feel like it's never going to end. But it does. And when you get to the end and you've allowed God to get you through a hard time, you realize it translates into other aspects of your life.

I can get through this because I know in the end God's got me. I can get through this because I know that this is a training tool that God's going to use. So don't lean on the earthly pleasures. Give it to God and allow yourself to feel a little bit of discomfort in order for Jesus.

In time, your ability to overcome your fleshly desires will begin to teach you how to be happy and content when you don't get what you want. That is a lesson that is so important for all of us to learn, especially me. If things don't go the way that I want, I can still be content in Jesus. If I'm hungry and I'm not getting what I want, which is immediate gratification, I can still worship God and lean on God, even in my discomfort, not rushing to fix it. I am a rusher to fix things. Fasting, you can't make that time speed up. You're either going to follow through with what God asked you to do or you're not. It's not going to speed up. You have to have patience and you have to endure it and then you reach the end of that.

You can have like the best meal you want at the end of that if you want. What Paul says in Philippians 4, 11 through 13, I'm not saying this because I am in need for I have learned to be content in whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well-fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want, I can do all things through Christ who gives me strength. Not the world, not food, not my mom who answers the phone and helps me get through whatever travesty I'm in. Christ giving us strength. We are learning to depend on Him. Paul says over and over again, I have learned this.

You don't have many... Think of the life that Paul led. He was imprisoned. He was beaten. He was... I mean like he learned how to lean on God. We don't go through those things on a daily basis. So fasting is our way to feel discomfort and still lean on God.

Remember that fasting is a training tool, right? It's a tool to help you get to the point where you're leaning on God. What starts as finding happiness even when you're hungry begins to translate into all other areas of your life. When we can't get what we want due to life circumstances or when other people's decisions upset us or even when God's sovereignty and His appointment over our lives doesn't go the way we expected it to go, we are increasingly free of anger and anxiety and are instead filled with joy and peace. That's what we want, right? That we think those earthly pleasures are going to give us. But they don't work. But this tool of denying yourself and allowing Christ to fill you will help you be increasingly free of anger, anxiety, and filled with joy and peace.

So I told you my first fasting experience. I was just mostly mad. I kept doing it. It was like once a week. And so I can remember distinctly a time when I was, again, probably like 15 hours into a fast. And I had made my kids bread. Because as a mom, it doesn't matter if you're not eating. Everybody else in your family still has to eat. So I made them bread. And it's these rolls that are so good. And they smell so good. And they just come out of the oven. And I wanted to eat one so bad. And I can remember feeling the Holy Spirit saying to me clearly in that moment, you have a choice to make right now. You can choose the easy way out, like you usually do. And you can grab that bread.

And it's going to make you feel better for a few seconds. Or you can choose to follow me, even if it doesn't make sense. Even if it's not what you want. Even if it's not going to cause immediate gratification, which is what you usually search for. And that translates into the rest of my life. I could think of so many instances in that moment where I had made the wrong choices in other things. I had gone for the immediate gratification. And these quick, earthly things that I usually would grab for, like the bread, are constantly making me numb. And they're holding me back from a deeper relationship with Jesus that he desperately wants to have with me. Where he fills those needs. Not earthly bread. That's why Jesus said, I am the bread of life.

And that verse just blaringly obvious to me in that moment. You keep going to these small things when I want to give you so much more than you could ever imagine. After that experience, I started to feel myself react to things differently. It was the craziest thing because it kind of came out of nowhere. I could feel my desires to fix my problems immediately start to come down. And I could feel my ability to wait on God increase. I told Pastor Ryan that at one point I was in my car and the worship music came on. And my connection with Jesus felt so much stronger than it had before because he was filling me where I didn't allow him to do so before. And then I began to have peace in areas that I never used to have peace.

I had an interaction with a friend of mine who had confronted me. She felt like I could have handled a situation better. My immediate reaction in those situations are, like kind of want to like crawl up in a hole and die slash justify myself, right? Anybody else there? Somebody says you could have handled this differently and you want to think of 15 reasons why they could have handled it differently. And it was probably not my fault. Also, I'm really embarrassed. But in that moment, I felt the peace of God surround me. And I was able to listen and be like, yeah, I probably could have handled that differently. I'm really sorry. And then the craziest thing was, I walked away and it didn't haunt me for the next five days. Because that's how I work.

It sits in my gut, in my heart. And I'm like, I think of all the ways that they messed up and I could have done this or like, and it sits with me. And I walked away and I kept expecting it to hit me. And I expected myself to be irritated and it never came. It was literally insane for me. It was life-changing. And I knew it was because God was using the way that I was able to deny myself and lean on Him in that moment to actually step back and be like, no, I actually could have handled that differently and I'm really sorry. And then let it go. And have peace that I rarely have in situations like that. Number two, fasting reveals what's in our hearts. Often we have a very misleading idea of how strong we are.

Some of us have this concept of like, I got this. This is not going to be hard at all because I'm going to lean on the power of Jesus and I'm not even going to be hungry for the next 24 hours. Fasting is really good at humbling you and making you realize we're not quite as strong as we think that we are. And we aren't that good at sacrificing for Jesus because we really don't have to all that much. We start to realize how much we need earthly pleasures to be happy, right? We think, I'm all filled with Jesus. I don't need earthly pleasures. He and I are going to get this together. 15 hours in, you're like, you know what? This is stupid. I don't need to fast. I'm just going to go back

and me and Jesus will talk this out later, but this is dumb. Because we realize how weak we really are and how much we depend on other things that aren't Jesus to get us through this. This is a good thing. Don't fight that. If this is something you choose to partake in and you start to feel that, don't be ashamed of what you're feeling. Rather, acknowledge your weakness and give it to God. One of the very best ways you can come to the foot of the cross is at complete humility. The Bible talks about how Jesus says, come to me like the children come to me. It's not because the children are like his favorite. It's because the children don't have high expectations of themselves. They come to Jesus knowing they're not worthy. We often come to him thinking we're kind of on par

and we're at the same level until we put ourselves through something like this. And then it's astonishing how weak we really are. This is one of my absolute favorite quotes for today, but it says, as we come to God and give him our weakness, he comes to us and gives us his strength. That's what I experienced that day with the confrontation. I had given him my weakness during the fasting and he gave me his strength in that conversation. And I've never experienced that before. And it was worth every second of discomfort during those fasting hours. Number three, fasting reorders our desires. One of the most astonishing I found through my fast is my desires started to shift. Not only was I able to not go to earthly pleasures like filling myself with shows or calling someone to help me get through something,

but I actually wanted to go to Jesus, which was, again, astonishing to me. I didn't know that the fasting was going to do these things in my life, but when I started to feel them, I knew where they were coming from. I could sit in my car. Typically, I am a, if I'm in my car, I need music on or I need to call someone. Does anybody else have that like extreme urge to call someone if you're in your car? It's like in tune. Like, I have a few seconds I'm going to call someone. And I felt the desire to sit in silence with Jesus. Never felt that before. Normally, it's like nobody answers, and I'm like, okay, fine, I'll sit in silence. This desire started to shift to where I wanted to spend time in silence with Jesus

more than I wanted to make the phone call. It wasn't sacrificially doing it. I actually wanted to do it. I found myself, the desire to justify myself go down, the desire to control situations go down, and the desire to give it to Jesus go up because he got me through these tough times, and it was a reminder he'll get me through the next thing. If you are struggling with a specific sin and your willpower is just not enough, I highly recommend giving fasting a chance because he will use the lessons that you learn while denying yourself to help you overcome this sin that you just can't seem to grasp. If you go to God and give him your weakness, he will come to you and give him your strength. Fasting is a tangible way to make that happen.

Have you ever sat through a message and they say, just give it to God, and you're like, what does that mean? How do you do that? Like, that's great. Sounds great on paper. What does it mean? This is like a tangible way to make a decision, and you give it to God, and he will flip it and give you his strength every time. And finally, number four, fasting draws on the power of God to overcome sin, not your willpower because that's not going to work. When you begin to fast, you will develop both self-control and self-discipline through the power of God. Self-control is the ability to say no to something that's bad for you, and self-discipline is the ability to say yes to something that you don't want to do but you know is good to do in the long run,

like refusing to eat. You know that God's going to use it even though you don't want to do it, and he will use the power of his Holy Spirit to change you from the inside out, to change your desires. Finally, we go back to the entire purpose of all of this, which is to know God, to grow closer to God. The ultimate aim of fasting is Jesus. Our deepest desire, if we allow it to come through, is to see God, to behold the beauty of God and to allow him to fill us. If that's not your purpose in fasting, if there is any other reason why you would fast, to make others think that you're holy, to use it as a crutch, don't do it. The full focus of fasting is to see Jesus. Matthew 5, 8 said,

blessed are the pure at heart for they will see God. If you do fasting in the right heart, in the pure heart, if you sacrifice the desire for food because you want to see God, he will bless that and show himself to you in ways that you couldn't imagine. And I think that's why this message was so hard for me because it's so important to portray that to you guys today. That fasting will help you see God in a way you've never seen him through the sacrifice that you make. Fasting's hard. It's not easy. It's going to be harder than you think it is. You're going to want to forget this entire series and pretend that God's not speaking to you and that you don't need to do it. But remember, Jesus said, the way to me

is through the cross. In case you're doubting whether or not your bodies are important to God, bring us back to the cross. When we do communion, what do we say? This is my body which is broken for you. If the body wasn't important to Jesus, he wouldn't have had to go through the immense pain to have his broken for us. And he wouldn't have had to go through the immense pain of the blood that we celebrate on every communion. Behold, this is my blood which was poured out for you. If the body wasn't important, those sacrifices wouldn't have been necessary on the cross to break the barrier between us and God. Yet, he denied himself to levels that we will never understand. And he's asking us to align our bodies with him just as he denied himself.

If we really want to get closer to God, then it's time for us to make sacrifices and deny ourselves so that we can train our bodies to line up with Jesus. There's a famous quote from C.S. Lewis and this is why Jesus wants us to do this. You may have heard it. It says, It would seem that our Lord finds our desires not too strong but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures fooling around with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered to us. Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea. We are far too easily pleased. We cannot remain numb and fill ourselves with these earthly desires if we want

to go deeper into the water with Jesus. He has to use this tool to wake us up which is really why I'm sure our Western society has pushed it aside because it's not fun and we want anything that is fun in the moment. Jesus is saying if you really want to go deeper with me you need to deny yourself and take up your cross and follow me. But what's at the other side of the cross? The resurrection. Jesus gave his blood and his body for us but then three days later he rose again. Just like the fast ends and you get to have a meal that will never taste better than any other meal. I had ramen noodles the other night and it was the best ramen noodles ever because I was so hungry. It was a reminder

that yes we have to take up our cross and deny Jesus but in the end is the resurrection of Christ and he comes back and he breaks every barrier and when we get to heaven when we get to the other side our bodies will be lined up with our spirit. We will no longer have desire to fast or to sin. We will no longer have the desire to fill ourselves with earthly pleasures because we will be reunited with Jesus and all of our earthly pleasures will come directly from God himself and that's where we're headed but for now while we have this fight going on inside of us fasting is a tool to help us overcome these earthly desires and to lean on God. So the question is is what do you want? Do you want to get

to the point where those five missionaries were where Jesus was the most important thing and it didn't matter what they had to sacrifice? They wanted to see Jesus or do you want to go on living a life of numbness or you just go from one earthly pleasure to the next slowly killing yourself? I want to see Jesus more than anything and if this is a practice that will get me closer to them than that then I am all in. I want to close with a quote from Joseph Worthlin. It says fasting coupled with mighty prayer is powerful. It can fill our minds with the revelations of the spirit. Fasting in the proper spirit and in the Lord's way will energize us spiritually. Strengthen our discipline fill our homes with peace lighten our hearts with joy

fortify us against temptation prepare us for times of adversity and open the windows of heaven. I want those windows of heaven to be so open that I see Jesus in every situation that I'm in and if fasting is going to get me closer than that then I'm all in and I would ask you to at least consider giving it a chance as you grow closer in your walk with Jesus. Let's pray together. Dear Heavenly Father we thank you for the sacrifice that you made for us for the denial that you went through to lay your body on that cross and be broken so that we can grow closer to you God and I pray that you would be the number one priority in our lives whatever it takes for us to get there where you are

the most important thing that you would give each person in this room the strength to do it that our hearts and our minds would be so focused on you that nothing else would get in the way and that you would lead us through the trials that are going to make us want to stop and go back to earthly pleasures that you give us the strength to continue so that you can take this church and grow us as a body so much closer to you God that you are all we see you can humble our spirits give us your peace give us your love so that we can share it with others in Jesus name I pray Amen.
