SEASONS OF FORMATION: Life Isn't Good, God Isn't Present
2024-04-29
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R6glR5OmD2E

Thank you. If we can go put up the next slide. The author of that song, his name is Benjamin William Hastings. He's probably pretty close to Ryan's age. Northern Irish songwriter from Belfast who moved to Sydney, Australia. And became a worship leader in 2013 with Hillsong Worship. Now, I don't know how many of you are familiar with Hillsong and their journey. But when the church was first planted in the late 1980s, within 30 years, they had expanded 30 countries, over 150,000 congregants. In just one year in the U.S., their songs are streamed about 1.1 billion times annually.

Some of you are familiar with the song, What a Beautiful Name, 343 million YouTube views on just that one song. 2019, $93 million of revenue. This young man, this gifted songwriter, follower of Jesus. Had reached the pinnacle of his craft, of his ministry.

And then in 2020, one of the most well-known and established pastors in the movement, Carl Lentz, pastor in New York, an individual who had brought in big-money people, big-name people, celebrities, Grammy-type folks, was fired. He was let go because of multiple infidelities over decades. He was accused of sexual abuse, something he denied, although he did admit the infidelity. And within two years, the founding pastor, Brian Houston, Huston, sorry, was accused of concealing sex abuse of minors and inappropriate relationships with two female staff. And he resigned. Within just weeks, nine of the 16 Hillsong churches in the U.S. closed. Mega churches. Closed. Go ahead and click the next slide. I think Hastings was pulled from the season of silence, or what we often call bravado. In the season of bravado, the season of silence, it's this sense of, I'm doing this.

In the season of wonder, it's this confidence, I can do this. But in the season of bravado, it becomes this time when, I'm doing this. And within weeks, was just yanked from that into the season of darkness, the season of shattering. The season of, I don't know if I can do this. In fact, I can't. Now, I have to say that on August of 2023, Huston was acquitted of his charges. And I'm really not here at all to talk about the indiscretions of any of those leaders. That's, that, I don't know enough about it. And I would, it would never be my place. But here is a young man serving God at the pinnacle of his ministry, who is yanked from it. Emotionally. And did you notice some of the words in that song? Go ahead and click the next slide.

I'm not a lost sheep. I just feel alone in the flock. In his commentary about the song, he says this line, are you finding these songs hard to believe that many people thought that, that he was talking to his, his congregation, his audiences, his listeners. And he said, no, no, no, no. This was, this was my prayer. I was talking to God. Because God, I don't know these songs that I'm singing. And I, if I, I don't know what I believe. God, are you finding it hard to believe these words that I'm singing to you? It's incredible. Dark night of the soul where he can sing, maybe faith is a gift you wasted on me. I, my, the longevity of my ministry, unless it is from some great individuals who, who decades down do something amazing,

will never touch the kind of impact that this 30 some year old guy has had. Do you know, they, they estimate that some 55 million believers will sing one of their songs this morning in church. Today. He goes on to talk about, I began to question the thing that I felt was a purpose. And then he said, and this one really caught me because it's true here, folks. We're going to be talking about the season of darkness. These times when God forms something in us that, that is profound and yet unbelievably painful. All of you just sang a song about, oh, make new wine in me and then the power of it. But you know how that song started. They, they crush the grapes to make new wine. We want new wine. We don't want the process.

We want the power, but not the pathway. He said in his commentary, a year later, thankfully I worked through a little bit of it.

And at the end of his commentary, he said, I, my song was really faith is, faith is, faith, faith is a gift, but faith is. And he says, why are you holding out on me, God? In another song that he wrote at the time of the, the collapsing of the cathedral, the spiritual cathedral that had been built in his heart and mind that he'd been part of, he talked about the church having concrete cancer in its walls. And then he said, I don't care about the failing. I have enough of that in me. But the inclination to conceal it just doesn't feel like church. I have to be honest. This is a hard message, but it's a critical message. Because often we're fed this idea that the season of wonder, wonder and delight is God's intention for all of us all the time.

And if we're not in it, somehow we have done something wrong. That somehow we are missing and, and we have to change. And let me tell you folks, the power of this story is, as far as I can see, this was done to him. And yet the internal reality of a believer who's trying to figure out how is it that God does this. King David said it this way. Next slide. Psalm 10. One. You know, David was a man after. Yeah. Do you believe that? A man after God's own heart. Why, oh Lord, are you standing so far off? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? Is that true? No. Is it emotionally true? Absolutely. That David in his own hoisting into a season of darkness, whether it is his father-in-law or his son chasing him out in the desert,

circumstances are such that it's awful. How long, oh Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I wrestle with my thoughts and every day have sorrow in my heart? How long will my enemy triumph over me? Next slide. Hastings is just a modern day example of something that's been around for a long time. Asaph was a worship leader in Israel, probably after David, the most prolific writer of our Psalms, so connected with the Holy Spirit that he had the privilege, the opportunity to write the word of God, to pen it as God inspired him.

He starts out Psalm 73, as surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. He makes a statement of faith. But for me, I'm about done. Me, as I watch what's going on, as I continue to do this, he was where Hastings was. And by the way, it's a place that I suspect some of us are. And if you're not, you probably will be at some point.

As for me, my feet came close to stumbling. My steps had almost slipped. Hastings has a line in his cathedrals of the Netter Grove, where he talks, if the wind starts to blow, I don't know how much longer I will last. Folks, it's a direct reference, not to the Roman seven man. Many of us know about the Roman seven man, but this is the Matthew seven man. This is where, where Jesus says to them, therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man. And when all this stuff comes, he stands. But everyone who hears these words of mine and does not put them into practice is like a foolish man who built his house on sand. That was the line of the song. And the rain came

and the streams rose and the winds blew and beat against that house and it fell with a great crash. Hastings was saying, man, that's what I feel like. That's where I feel that I am. Ryan mentioned two weeks ago about Mother Teresa after giving her life to the poorest of the poor in the city of joy in Calcutta and the poorest slums they could find, the place where the water floods in feet every year and sewer just runs down the streets and she's doing medical care and caring for the poor. And yet on the night that she's receiving the Nobel Peace Prize the next day, she's in her room talking to God, questioning her own relationship with him. Next slide. Asaph, after he talks about the stuff that really gave him a problem. And by the way,

Asaph's problems are maybe some of yours. My dark night of the soul was not those things. But things that I just couldn't reconcile in my mind and in my heart and in my spirit and everything, I was at the wall and everything I thought I knew I no longer was sure. Folks, the reason we're doing this series is because so many of us tend to view that as punishment. And let me tell you, as awful as it feels in the midst of it, it's a gift. The season of darkness, oh Lord, make new wine in me. And God says, okay.

And then we say, enough wine, Lord. I've seen too many people because for two decades, this is what I did with pastors who walked in the dark night of the soul and questioned their own faith and how can I even get up there and preach it when I don't know if I believe it? How can I sing these songs to you, God, when I don't think you believe what I'm saying? How can I do this? What do I do, Lord?

And the mystics have taught us it's actually part of God's formation because these seasons are seasons of formation. God is forming us and I'm going to try to walk you through what that looks like and how that feels. In verse 13 and 14, Asaph says, surely in vain I've kept my heart pure. He's questioning. And washed my hands in innocence for I have been stricken all day long and chastened every morning. Next slide. If I had said, I will speak thus, behold, I would have betrayed the generation of your children. I can't tell you how many folks in ministry, the hardest part of it is, I can't tell them. I'm feeling this, but I can't tell them. It's almost like a parent that all of life is falling apart and they want to reassure their children

in the midst of that. And sometimes the hardest part of the dark night of the soul is the stuff that we feel we can't let out. Hastings says, but the thoughts that I thought about you just don't work like I thought. Janet Hagberg talks about the journey of faith and the journey of faith when we go through this inward journey where God begins to purge things inside our very soul that we don't even know is there, that often God will take us to the wall. And the wall is something that we cannot climb over although we try. We cannot dig under although we try. We cannot knock over. We can only be at the wall because it's a wall that God has got to remove. And to remove it he wants to use it in your life, in your soul to make you more like Jesus.

St. John of the Cross put it this way. Next slide. As a child grows bigger, the mother gradually ceases caressing it. And hiding her tender love, she puts bitter aloes upon her sweet breast, sets down the child from her arms and makes it walk upon its feet so that it may lose the habits of a child and betake itself to more important and substantial occupations. I guarantee that no child likes being weaned. No child understands the weaning that goes on. No child gets it. But the mother in her great love for her child does it. Asaph resolves it by the way in his whole I don't get it. I don't know what to do. Next slide. In verse 17 he says all of this was true. I questioned everything and the only solution was not that I reasoned it

but that I entered the sanctuary of God. That like Job at the end of his trial when God finally shows up and God speaks to him for Job it was enough because God was there. Now here's the deal folks. God shows up when he knows it's best for you. But in this season there are times when God will hide his presence to finish in you the work that you've asked for. Make new wine. To finish the activity of a purging of a purification. You know God doesn't bless you with an awareness of his presence because of how wonderful you are. He does it because he loves you and he's answering your prayer to be transformed. The opposite is also true. God doesn't withhold the awareness of his presence because you're awful. No, he does it because he loves you. And he does it because he's answering your prayer to be transformed.

Next slide. God says it in Isaiah this way. I will give you treasures of darkness and hidden wealth of secret places so that you may know that it is I the Lord the God of Israel who calls you by your name. In verse 5 he promises of this same passage I will strengthen you though you have not acknowledged me. Verse 7 I form the light and create darkness. I bring prosperity and create disaster. I the Lord do all of these things. And then in verse 9 the passage that I'm sure is familiar to many of you does the clay say to the potter what are you making? I remember watching a message one time when it was a woman who was speaking who was a potter and she's talking about how God forms us but as she did it

she did it at a wheel and one of these little step things and she's spinning the wheel and she takes out this clay this lump of clay and she goes and then she begins to apply pressure to it and as she applies pressure she begins to form things and yet as she's doing that somehow it defaults and she stops the wheel she takes the pot she takes the clay and she again because she has a purpose for the pot she knows what she's doing with the pot God is a potter and he's making you into something absolutely wonderful and useful and beneficial and making you ready for union with him but sometimes that new wine of power requires a little pressing and I hope I really hope because I've seen too many people who assumed

in the season of darkness that somehow they had abandoned God that somehow they had walked away from God is that possible? sure I don't understand why Kent did a great job and Ryan did a great job of the season of silence it can be your fault but it can be God's blessing to you the season of desert yeah you could really have screwed up and that's why you're there but it might be God's wanting to build an identity in you that this is the way he does it so too is the season of darkness next slide we started this whole series with Ecclesiastes there is a time for everything and a season for every activity under heaven he has made everything beautiful in its time that is a statement of faith my friends particularly when you enter

into a season of darkness a season when life is really hard and God seems absent that it's only by faith that we can say but you're still good God I know you're good I don't see it I don't feel it I don't experience it I don't want what I'm walking through but God you are good it's a statement of faith he has made everything beautiful in its time he's also said eternity in the human heart that we want not just so I was talking to someone the other day about fruit and you know you do ministry because you want to see fruit can I get an amen on that anybody out there like they do what they do because they want to see fruit I mean you want to see change well the Bible says it this way

fruit that what remains I can look out over the last couple decades and I can see some rotten stuff out there fruit that just God wants fruit that remains and so through the season of wonder and delight and the season of silence and bravado the season of desert and disillusionment and yes even in the season of darkness the season of shattering where I realize I can't do it my false pride is removed okay next slide you've seen this before I think I've talked to you about it by the way lest you think Johari is some new age word Johari window came from the two guys who created the idea Joseph and Harry so just so we're clear 1955 two psychologists and they said the reality is in our own development there are areas that are known

to ourself and known to others I'm a pastor and I know it and you guys know it I have certain abilities and I have certain liabilities and some of them you know and I know open to self known to self known to others then there's that area that is like known to everyone else but not known to you you know God gives every group a person who will teach you grace in small groups we often refer to this as the EGR extra grace required and if God God will give you one and it's part of his forming and they always say you know if you don't know who your EGR is in your group it's probably you it's known to others but it's a blind spot we don't see it and we all have them

and then there's this hidden area where it's known to me but man I don't let anyone else see it and then in the Jahari window there is this unknown spot I don't see it others don't see it and I think we should correct I don't want to rewrite Jahari's window but if I were to do this I would call that known only to God that there is stuff that is known only to God and God will use the dark night of the soul to bring it up and get it out the words purgation to let it out you know what purging means right to get it out you don't even know it but it's something that God does in 600 AD Gregory the first compiled a list of seven biblical sins and then in his

message he called them deadly and so they've been passed down through the ages as the seven deadly sins St. John of the cross connected these seven deadly sins to the dark night of the soul and God's purpose in using the dark night of the soul I'm going to read just a short little section of my own writing relative to this to prune these imperfections these unknown places we become passive recipients of God's purgation as he plunges us into a season of darkness he takes us at our word and grants us the growth we pursue by excising hidden aspects of our character in place of pride God builds humility in place of secret greed he morphs it into simplicity wrath and luxury and gluttony and envy and sloth are divinely replaced with contentment peace moderation joy

and strength Saint John of the cross writes this go ahead next slide by the way he talks about two nights of the soul and the first one is one that God invites everyone into and that's the one that I'm going to read about here it's this place where these unknown things need to be made known and they're made known in this place of darkness the treasure of darkness a place that's only known to God and comes to light so that he can begin to take what is a secret pride and turn it into true biblical humility I remember watching a message one time by a guy he was talking about the old man and as he was preaching there was this guy hanging on him so he's walking around dragging this guy that's just hanging

on him as the old man and as he begins to pray you can see this old man getting weaker and as he begins to confess the word of God you can see this old man getting weaker as he begins to submit to the Lord the old man and he gets to the place where finally the old man just falls off him and is laying on the ground like dead and he turns back he goes whew glad I got rid of him and the old man went because there is this secret pride St. John writes this at the beginning as these beginners feel themselves to be very fervent and diligent in spiritual things and devout exercises there often comes to them through their imperfections a certain kind of secret pride some degree of satisfaction with their

works and with themselves they condemn others in their heart when they see that they have not the kind of devotion which they themselves desire when I was a young believer there was a song I used to sing and it was when I was in the season of delight and at the end of my message Marissa is going to come back up and invite you to sing it with me it's a prayer if you're over 60 and you've been in the church a long time you probably know this if you're under 40 you probably don't but spirit of the living God fall afresh on me spirit of the living God fall afresh on me break me melt me mold me fill me and I can tell you when I was living in the season of wonder

and delight feeling I'd gotten so close to God because I'd made so much progress feeling so good about my relationship with him I was all in and I would pray that song I would sing it to the Lord oh Lord break me and melt me and mold me and fill me and sometimes they add the word use me oh Lord do it and then he did it and I stopped singing it it's like suffering is so cool until you suffer persecution sounds wonderful until you're persecuted at the end we're going to invite you if you want to sing that with us if you don't that's fine but here's the deal next slide St. John says for however assiduously the beginner practices the mortification in himself of all these actions and passions of his he can never

completely succeed very far from it until God shall work in him passively by means of purgation of the said night in other words to make new wine you got to crush some grapes St. John of the cross in dark night of the soul it's often called dark night of the senses unpacks this by the way in about 25 pages if you really want to read about how God works through the seven sins biblical sins that Gregory identified and called deadly and you want to see how this works about 25 pages of reading you'll come away convicted and submissive to the Lord if you're open to the spirit of God as you read I would commend it to you but he also talks about a second night go ahead and go there next slide and I'm

not going to talk about the second dark night if you want to learn again St. John offers it and does a good job but the point that he makes and I think he is right looking at history and looking at people looking at how God seems to work that this first night of the soul dark night of the soul where God gets in and begins to purge stuff that's inside our gut and needs to come out and it and it and it requires this sickness to finally overcome the reflux to reflect the activity keep it down and up it comes and out it comes and there are appropriate ways to do that and good ways to do that and God I'll give you an example my kid was one one and a half something like

that and I don't know how she got it but she got a bottle of iodine and she drank the whole sucker and so I you know I first of all I yelled for Lori and she got mad at me that I yelled at her and then she thought no wait Matt doesn't normally yell at me maybe I should come and see what's going on but I ended up calling the nurse online and she said do you have this stuff that makes a child throw up and I said yes we do go get it start giving it to you know if this happens with Catherine this is what you want to do if this happens you want to bring her right to the emergency room I was only about five blocks from the emergency room but if

you can get it all up and get it out that would be good and so a loving father is giving my daughter this stuff to drink that's making her throw up and at some point she made the connection and it rocked her boat because how could a loving dad make her drink something that makes her feel that sick that iodine wasn't too bad it's a dark night of the soul she didn't get it but she's healthy because of it the second dark night however he likens to the first dark night is like the pruning of a tree awful and horrible and painful but the second dark night is like the digging out of the roots and he says there are few who are invited into this in some ways folks it almost parallels martyrdom and you

know there's a few rules about martyrdom in the Christian world number one never seek it the early church at the time when people were martyred for their faith they condemned anyone who would try in grandiosity to create a situation so they could become a martyr it's just pride never ever seek it and in fact if you read Jesus at the end when God said okay it's time he laid down his life but there are a bunch of times where he said nope and he conveyed himself right away from the crowd because he didn't seek it until God said it's a gift so like martyrdom the second night don't ever seek it don't think somehow I'm going to get a shortcut to holiness but if you're there and it's possible that someone's there choose to believe what

you learned in the light as you doubt in the darkness I used to say never doubt in the darkness what God revealed in the light I no longer say that because it's just not real not if you're in the dark night of the soul not if you're taken to that place where the grape is being crushed so wine can be made not if you're in that place where you're being broken and melted and molded and so now I think it's more choose faith in the midst of your unbelief choose to believe what you learned in the light as you doubt in the darkness I'm going to say this and maybe I'll get in trouble from someone with it but you do know that God invented doubt and he did so because he hates deception and all

of us find ways and means to self deceive and so it's through a gift of even doubt in the midst of that not doubt of him that's where we have faith in him but in the things that we're sure we believe and know when I was a young believer I had a lot of doctrines that I was absolutely sure on and I was going to convince you of them and now I have a few who Jesus is non-negotiable fully God fully man the Trinity non-negotiable the Bible is the inspired authoritative word of God what it claims for itself non-negotiable but there's a whole bunch of other things that I was absolutely sure about that I now realize maybe I was right maybe I'm wrong I don't know and the last thing I would say as you

choose to believe what you learned in the light while you doubt in the darkness if you're in this season the church does not do a good job with you generally we just don't we call it unfaith we call it backsliding and we call it all kinds of things we're like Job's comforters what did you do wrong and we quote Scripture like Job's comforters but here's the deal if you're there folks if one of you's there two of you there don't take this journey alone secrets kill find find a safe and trusted soul friend don't walk it alone there's something about one another that's all I'm going to say about the second dark night if when we're done if you're there and you want to talk I will make myself available so I hope you got

the main message that those times when when life is hard and God seems absent it could be you've done something wrong and you need to repent that's possible but don't jump there I can't use the verse out of Romans chapter 8 verse 1 there is now therefore no for those the evil one loves to condemn us we love to condemn us God loves to transform us and so if you are there I hope I hope you can hear that even this can be a gift from God the treasure of darkness that he spoke about in Isaiah 45 but then what do you do with it I'd like to give you two spiritual disciplines in the midst of this first of all most of it's passive and so one of the songs we sang about the anchor

in our faith in many ways the disciplines that work in these seasons of formation because we're a passive recipient rather than an active discipline it's more of an anchor it's holding on to those things that we know are true because it's so clear in the Scriptures that they're true and what we experience as real is not necessarily what God knows is true and we choose truth over what seems real it's an anchor it's an anchor of the soul but there are two active exercises smart bombs that can get at this time and if you're there I want to offer them to you as ways to begin to get at it the first one is praise praise is an act of declaring what is true whether you feel it's true or not put on the garment

of praise for the spirit of heaviness that there is this and I generally recommend that if people put on the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness don't pray the songs about how I love you Jesus just pray the songs about who he is you know a mighty fortress is our God a bulwark never failing how great is our God whatever songs speak to his greatness because that's not none of that is contingent on how I feel it's just true and so beginning to offer those truths back to God in praise somehow it affects our soul but there's a second one and it's the one that I've shown you several times on the slides up here and that's a practice of lament if we'll go to the next slide writing a lament I encourage

people if if they're just life is hard and God seems absent and take that authentic honest song like Hastings man I'm wondering if I'm on sand if the wind blows I don't know if I'm going to make it but here's some critical pieces of lament number one writing a lament is always to the Lord it's like shooting an arrow folks I was with Mike Gad out in Colorado and we were doing the bow stuff I don't shoot arrows I can talk about it but I don't really do it and so I'm looking down with my bow and my arrow and I have it notched and Mike says something and I what Mike and Mike was very gracious he actually looked at the person who's supposed to be like supervising this whole thing and he's just like

looking at her and looking at her and looking at me and she said Matt would you please point that down the thing rule number one bow and arrow only shoot at the intended target and in a lament the target is always God it was David's target to the Lord to the Lord with feeling be honest emotional truth to the Lord with feeling without censoring I don't know if any of you have ever read C.S. Lewis's A Grief Observed it's his lament by the way if you don't know who C.S. Lewis is great Christian thinker great writer love the Lord and yet when his wife was dying he had this lament inside this poison inside and in his lament this man of unbelievable brilliance laments to God and publishes it and calls God a cosmic sadist

now does he think that's what God is no is that what he's feeling without censoring I've done this a hundred times with pastors and we often ask them to read it to God in front of a trusted brother or a trusted sister and when we tell him without censoring we say if it's in there God's already heard it so go ahead and write it after the third F-bomb people go oh I guess he really means this because if it's in there God's already heard it you're not going to write a lament oh thou great and gracious God thou dost take care of me in the midst of my pain no Lord would you rip the heart out of that scum sucking pig because if it's in there it's got to come up and it's got

to get out and you do it in safety if you're going to choose to write a lament I'd encourage you to write it alone write it to God write it without without censoring but write it honest even if that means when you're done you're going to just in your room read it to God rip it up and burn it now I'm going to encourage you to do it in the presence of a brother or sister who is safe and trustworthy because confessing our faults one to another does bring healing it does bring healing but I would rather you write the honest

mother Teresa writes this to her confessor on July 3rd 1959 in the darkness Lord my God who am I that you should forsake me the child of your love and now has become the most hated one the one you have thrown away as unwanted unloved I call and I cling I want and there is no one to answer no one on whom I can cling no no one alone in the darkness I am alone unwanted forsaken the loneliness of the heart that wants love is unbearable where is my faith even deep down right in there is nothing but emptiness and darkness my God how painful is this unknown pain it pains without ceasing I have no faith I dare not utter the words and thoughts that crowd my heart without ceasing I have no faith

I suffer in untold agony so many unanswered questions live within me I'm afraid to uncover them because of the blasphemy if there be God please forgive me before the work started there was so much union and love and faith trust prayer sacrifice did I make the mistake of surrendering blindly to the call of the sacred heart the work is not a doubt because I'm convinced that it has nothing to do with me I don't feel not even a single simple thought or temptation enters my heart to claim anything in the work of choice she later came to see that God was answering her prayer that she could follow the Lord by picking up her cross and following him she wrote that and shared it with her confessor and it was only published about three years

ago do it in safety but also do it while listening so many of the lament psalms start with oh God where are you and somehow in the midst of pouring it all out they find God they speak a word of epiphany a word of praise it's again it's like if you're really sick you never feel better than right after you throw up get it up and you get it out while listening in faith next week we're going to conclude this series we don't want to end with a season of darkness because your current season is not your last season God moves you through various seasons and he does do for various means and ways I've had the privilege of walking through the season of darkness and emerging on the other side I've had the gift

of being able to enter back into that early season of wonder and delight God I don't know what God has for you but I'm sure that seasons change God will accomplish what he wants to accomplish in the midst of what you're going through and walking through and then the season will change if you want Marissa is going to lead us in a song I'd like to ask you to stand with me spirit of the living God fall afresh on me break me melt me mold me fill me get all the junk out that what I'm full of is the spirit of God if you're not ready to pray the prayer then just listen don't sing but if you're ready to pray the prayer now that doesn't mean he's going to take you to season of

darkness he might have a totally different idea but the question is am I willing to go where you want to go Lord am I willing to

pray it as a song I think Marissa you'll sing through it once and then we'll be able to sing with you if you want prayer there is this room over here if curtain looks a little creepy to you there are chairs up front because I don't want you traveling this journey alone I want God to complete his work in the midst of safety and companionship and we have people who have been trained to pray with you they're not going to try to fix you they're not going to give unsolicited advice I'm just going to pray Marissa lead us please Spirit of the living God Fall fresh on me Spirit of the living God fall fall fresh fresh on me melt me me mold me fill me use me Spirit of the living God God fall

fall fresh on me I'm going to sing with Marissa and I invite you to as well keep my microphone off while I sing Spirit Spirit of the living God fall fresh on me Spirit of the living God fall fresh on me me melt me Mold me fill me me use me Spirit of the living God fall fresh on me me Spirit of the living God fall fresh on me Spirit of the living God fall fresh on me me me Melt me Mold me Mold me Fill me Fill me Use me Spirit of the living God fall fall fresh me fresh on me let me proclaim a benediction over you a truth about God no matter what season you're in and let me invite you if you want prayer to that you can either stay in your seat

or you can come forward or come into the room if you're not staying I would ask that you go quietly give space to people who might want to Jude writes the brother of our Lord now unto him who is able to keep you and to cause you to stand before his presence blameless and with great joy to the only wise God our savior through Jesus Christ our Lord be glory and majesty and dominion and power both now and forevermore amen you may go in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord Jesus Christ so melt me mold me fill me use me spirit of the living God fall fresh on me me spirit of the living God fall fresh on me spirit of the living God fall fresh on me me oh man melt me

mold me fill me fill me use me mount me mold me fill me and use me me me spirit of the living God fall fresh on me spirit of the living God fall fresh on me oh on me, oh, fall fresh on me. Amen. Amen. Amen.
