Christoformity
2024-09-02
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w14y9_Layn0

All right, we'll let our youth posy out. I'd say they're welcome to stay, but I don't want to step on Donovan's toes. Now, good morning, Canvas Community Church. For those of you that may not have the opportunity that we haven't gotten to meet yet, my name is Corey Smith, and I'm part of the teaching team here at Canvas.

I often get accused of using theological words that people don't know what I mean or they don't know my intended descriptor behind them, mostly by my wife. She kind of prides herself on being my control subject when putting together sermons. She usually helps me with love and critiques, like, that's too wordy. Clean that up. That's dumb. That doesn't make any sense. That sort of control subject. So, I'd say if you have critiques, bring them to her, not me. She'll either try to throw hands with you or get me to change the way I do things. I'm totally kidding, kind of. But in all seriousness, she's primarily the one who encourages me when putting together a sermon to spend some time, Mike Miller called me on this, unpacking things. Mostly, she helps me to try to get my, what are your intended thoughts behind this?

Or she helps me to see my blind spots when I say something with little to no context for what I mean or how somebody's interpreting it. See, I'm guilty of assuming that everyone listens to the same 14 hours of podcasts that I do. They're reading the same books. They're having the same conversations. That's something I'm working on. But you've heard me say this before. If we're not defining what we mean by certain things, nuance and understanding could be lost or misintended. And that's definitely not any of our goal here. So, I want you to know exactly, or as much as possible, why I'm excited about Jesus. And I definitely want my wife and family to know why I'm excited about the things of Jesus. But in her defense, she's probably tired of hearing my ramblings when I get excited about

something. And same as you guys are, but here we are. So, when I talked about, we kind of had this fill the gap of, hey, we want to do this kind of standalone sermon between our summer journey, which we've been on together, right, and reintroducing Practicing the Way. And that kind of got the ball turning for me is, let's spend some time unpacking theological words, albeit for one sermon. But my goal is to help add some perspective and some theological words to your dictionary and Christ-centered conversations you may find yourself in. So, in a small sense, when you and I have these conversations, when we find ourselves in those Christ-centered conversations, you can use a $5 word. But, you can also hear some of the nuance behind it. We learn and grow together. Is that, we tracking?

That was a Debbie Miller. She also said, I say that. So, we tracking together? Sweet. Our theological word of the day is, you probably guessed it, Christiformity. Christiformity is simply defined as being conformed to the image of Christ. But, like with any theological or biblical term, it carries with it more weight and thoughts than just a sheer definition. My goal today is to help unpack a piece of that nuance and weight that this word carries theologically and what it means for us as followers of Jesus. And also, to use this as an invitation for those of us in the room, maybe, that wouldn't consider themselves Christians, to invite you into this life of Christiformity and what that looks like. I don't want to sell you a bill of goods when it comes to the Christian life.

I want to tell you possibly how difficult it is. Because what I don't want is to sell you something that sounds really good. And it is really good. But I think our American definition of good and comfortable tend to be different than how the Bible describes good. We tracking? So, I anticipated some questions from you guys to have more of a holistic approach to this topic. And since we've already talked about what it means, we're going to kind of jump down. But for my note takers, I added all three. So, what does Christiformity mean? What is Christiformity? And why is Christiformity important? Listen, I love theology, but one thing has become evidently clear as I study and grow in faith around it. I won't get all the answers right. Right? I don't think any of us will.

But the heart of theology is not to be right. The heart of theology is that it's supposed to be a tool, to be used, to be more like Jesus, not to be used and weaponized in the pursuit of pride or being right. So, can you use a hammer to drive in a screw? I'm not being like, yeah, I mean, I'm not, I know how tools are used. Like, can you use a hammer to drive in a screw? Yeah. Yeah, probably. But is that the intended purpose of a hammer? No. No. Right? Now, a hammer's made to drive in nails. Now, a screwdriver, perfect for a screw. Agreed? So, theology is to be used as a tool to be more like Jesus, not weaponized in the pursuit of being right. That's the slippery slope. Theology is defined as the study of the nature of God.

And I have to apologize to the tech team. You guys don't know this, but I gave them like 45 slides, and they got their work cut out for them today. And if we're, right, if we're studying the nature of God, then our goal should be to submit to that nature as we uncover more about it, right? As you learn more about it, you're submitting more and more to it. We're finding out who God is and what he asks of us, are we submitting to that? But there lies the realization. We won't ever uncover everything about God, will we? We're never going to be right on the money. Benjamin William Hastings has this line, line, line in a song called The Jesus I Know. And it hit me. I mean, I love that. But it encapsulates my love for the study of theology, but a healthy recognition that I

fall drastically short. And we all will. It goes like this. I've tried with the best of my words to be true to who you really are, but I wonder how far I fell short. Do you, Jesus, recognize yourself in my songs?

Because all that I want is the truth. And I hope my theology is close. But who could summarize infiniteness to think I know only proves that I don't? So we'll start with this question. What is Christiformity? Because we already talked about what Christiformity means, right? Christiformity is being defined as conformed to the image of Christ, right? I can say that when you, when I say Christiformity, you're like, what's that mean? Conformed to the image of Christ. You're like, okay, got it. There's a little, there's some weight to that. And to grasp that theological term, we're going to start at the place of authority, right? We're going to start with Scripture. If you have your Bibles, you can turn to Romans 8. We're going to start there, verses 28 through 30. We're going to jump to Galatians.

We're going to jump to the passage in 2 Corinthians. And I'll be reading out of the CSB today. So if you would, and if you're able to, let's stand as we read the word of the Lord together. Romans 8, 28 through 30. We know that all the things work together for good of those who love God, who are called according to his purpose. For those he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, so that he, Jesus, would be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters. And those he predestined, he also called. And those he called, he also justified. And those he justified, he also glorified. I didn't put this one in, but Galatians 4, 19. This is Paul writing again, my children, I am suffering labor pains for you until Christ is formed in you.

And now 2 Corinthians 3, 17 through 18. Now the Lord is spirit, and where the spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. We all, with unveiled faces, are looking as in a mirror at the glory of the Lord, and are being transformed into that same image from glory to glory. This is from the Lord, who is spirit. This is the word of the Lord. Before we sit down, we'll give you that warning. Let's pray together so I can ask God for some help. Sound good? Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for the gift of Jesus, our Lord, Savior, and King. We thank you for your loving hand over all of creation, including us, Lord. Give us ears, not just to hear the words of you today, but give us the faith to let you conform, form, and transform all of us,

not into images of our own design, but in the images of Christ. We so often look at our own strength to give us the blueprint for holiness. I know I do, but Lord, give us holiness as it only comes from you. Grant us grace on top of grace as we walk in this apprenticeship to you. We pray all of this for your glory and our neighbor's good. And in the name of Jesus, we pray. Amen. You guys can all have a seat. So the verses I just read in mind, let's continue to look at this term, Christiformity, and what it means. Romans 8, 28 through 30, which we read together. Paul offers some insight into the purposes of God, right? The big picture of God's plan for salvation, God's rescue plan. In verse 29, he clarifies that destiny of those he is rescuing or saving is to be what?

Conformed to the image of a son. I'm going to step on some toes here. Who thought the rescue plan was just to get us to heaven when we died? Right? Hopefully, we as a teaching team are broadening your horizons when it comes to the good news of Jesus Christ. In Galatians 4, 19, Paul writes to a group of Christians who have become confused about the gospel. He's in passion, frustration. He says, my children, I am again suffering the labor pains until Christ is formed in you. Yet again, in 2 Corinthians 3, 18, Paul offers another similar image. We all, with unveiled faces, are looking as in a mirror at the glory of the Lord and are being transformed into that same image from glory to glory, both now and in eternity. See, in all three passages, with a clear call to someone who has professed faith in Jesus is to be conformed, formed, and transformed.

A mirror image, to steal some of Paul's language, right? Reflecting Jesus to the world, reflecting the world back to Jesus. Reflecting Christ's principles, nature, and character all around them. Theologians have coined a word to capture this thought, and it's Christiformity. See, this theological term is a way of articulating a one-word descriptor about how everything in our destiny is bound up in the person and the work of Christ. We're to be incorporated into him in such a way that our lives are totally reshaped in reference to him. See, the shape and trajectory of Jesus' life now should define our own. We are conformed not only to him in death, right, cruciformity, but to his life, ministry, teachings, and ultimately his resurrection and glory. This should be the end goal. And I know we get there, I know we say those things, but think about this.

This is the end goal of every ministry here at church or abroad, every sermon, every small group, every passages class. Everything we do should all be summed up in one word, Christiformity, or being conformed to the image of Jesus. That is the goal behind those ministries. That is why we do these things. This is what we're aiming for. And I'm going to call out the elephant in the room for my Calvinist brothers and sisters that like to sit a little longer in Romans 8.28. But that's not, this message is not my take on the Calvinism-Arminian debate. If you're like, what, good, love Jesus, keep on following him. This message is geared around the heart of God as it applies to our ultimate destiny in him. So you may be asking yourself, okay, I've got a basis of what Christiformity is and what Christiformity means.

But, Corey, why does Christiformity matter? And I'd say, it's a great question. Because I've got notes for it. Now, Christiformity matters because it's a vital means by which God's ultimate plan comes to fruition. One, God wants to include us in his family. God wants to include us in his household. God wants us to sit at his table for all eternity. And we're going to look at each one of those verses. Sorry, Scott, I messed you up. God wants to include us in his family. Ephesians 1, 5. He predestined us, and Ryan's talked about this, to be adopted as sons and daughters through Jesus Christ for himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. God wants to include us in his household. Romans 8, 29. For those he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son so that he would be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters.

And God wants us to sit at his table for all eternity. Revelation 9, 19, 6 through 9. Then I heard something like the voice of vast multitude, like the sound of cascading waters, and like the rumble of loud thunder saying, Hallelujah, because our Lord God, the Almighty reigns. Let us be glad, rejoice, and give him glory, because the marriage supper of the Lamb has come. And his bride has prepared herself. She was given fine linen to wear, bright and pure, for the fine linen represents the righteous acts of the saints. Then he said to me, Right, blessed are those invited to the marriage feast of the Lamb. He also said, These words of God are true. So the good news, the gospel, is that God has made a way by grace for us to become members of his household.

The way into that communion is only through Christ Jesus. When we are baptized, we are incorporated into Christ, sharing his collective identity. When we receive Holy Communion, we are renewing our identity as his body. From this place in his body, our existence becomes the means of working out Christiformity. That will one day result in what theologians call the theosis, not theosis, theosis, or the eternal participation in the work and life of God. One important way of thinking about Christiformity is that it helps us by offering us a clear picture of what it looks like to be a son or a daughter of God. Jesus is the firstborn. And we've been predestined to resemble him in any way our life. So we're, right, we're resembling Jesus. But in any way our life and by extension our church, if those things deviate from the pattern or ethos of Jesus' life,

that is a way we can acknowledge that God is still at work transforming us. We all need constantly pointed back to Jesus. By thought and by actions, there are ways that we deviate from Christ. There are ways I drastically deviate from Christ. We need to acknowledge those things, and those things need to be submitted to Christ so that we, so that the continuing work of us being conformed to his image are made more complete. I'm going to share a story, even though I'm going to be pressed for time, but you guys listen fast. So the other day we were riding down, riding down the road, and we just had a random playlist going. And like, don't hear this, it's super spiritual. But like we were listening to Jesus culture, like set a fire, set a fire, you know, set a fire, set a fire down in my soul.

Let it, you know, let it burn out of control. And like, and I'm sitting here, I'm sitting with this, and I did this this morning of just self-reflection and just who I am before God. And it's like, I say that, but do I really want it? Corbin, Corbin's not talking to me, I don't think, Holy Spirit, but he's talking to his brother, and he just goes, liar? And I'm like, man, yeah, stop that. But yes, like I, I have that, like the, Paul talks about that, where the flesh and the spirit war against each other. I feel that, unless I'm alone in the room, I'm sure you guys feel too, so confession time. But in our flesh, it's often difficult to see or correct those things for ourselves. See, we're Americans, right? We like to be individuals, and we like to do things what we want to do, right?

Am I the only one? Good, I'm preaching to myself anyway, so y'all are good. Y'all just listen in on my internal ramblings. But that's, we, we, we like to just, I can justify my sins. Like, right? I did this because of this. That's, that needs to be handed over to Jesus. And what, and what I mean by that, it needs to be handed over to Jesus, but it also needs to be handed over to each other. Corporate confession this morning. And what I mean by that is something I've had to work out from my childhood. And something that's important to us here at Canvas is, a confessional community is important to us here. Because our desire is that you find people that you have real connections with, and together work through the Spirit to work on those things.

Confessing sins and faults with one another, so that we all may be more conformed to the image of Jesus, right? One way to see this concept worked out in the pages of the New Testament is a repeated exhortation to live a life worthy of the Lord. And what does that mean, a life worthy of the Lord? I think we, in church culture, say that, live a life worthy of the Lord. Again, weight and nuance, right? In my upbringing, that meant, hide your faults and nobody else solve them. Don't tell anybody about them, right? Don't confess to them in fear of retribution or shame. Live a life worthy. And I don't know that it means hide your stuff. A life worthy of someone is a life uniquely measured by or against that person.

It's a life that captures the actions, attitudes, ideas, commitments, and the overall ethos of that person. I want to live a life worthy of them. See, we're not to measure our lives against each other, right? When the Apostle Paul says that we're in a race, it's not that I want to finish, picking on you guys up here. It's not that I want to finish before Jason or Eric. Jason just proved my point. No, I'm just kidding. But it's not that I want to finish before somebody else. It's that I want to build each other up so that we all finish the finish line together. Because Jesus has already run the race. He's already the champion. He's already the victor. Right? We're not competing against each other. We have a prize. See, I think we're quick to realize this remarkably challenging vision.

If you're not, I am. Maybe even impossible apart from the work of God. See, the irony in the language of worthiness is that we're only able to be in Christ by our acknowledgement that we're totally unworthy of this bearing his name. Right? There's that recognizable tension that we like to talk about. We are totally unworthy of Christ. And that's precisely the posture we have to have if we're going to live a life worthy of Christ. Even though it might be obvious, it's not need talking to, in order to experience this Christiformity, live a life worthy of Jesus, we must actually seek to know the person of Jesus. See, Christiformity is not merely a philosophical or theological construct. It's about Jesus and his person. Christiformity is about intimacy with Jesus, the person, the practice, the life, the ministry, the death, the resurrection.

See, let me unpack that a little bit more. And I'm going to go on a little bit of a tangent. So, hopefully, you'll hear my heart. We are broken vessels. I am a broken vessel. Whether humanity as a whole or self-proclaimed followers of Jesus, to be conformed to the image of Christ, we must know Christ. According to Moses' testimony of creation in Genesis 1-26, the Lord God said, let us make man in our image and our likeness. Right? That's God talking. But humanity, Corey, I mean, I'm still being conformed. As much as I'd like to not be, I am very much still being conformed to the image of Jesus. But as broken vessels and possessing an innate unwillingness and rebellion to the things Jesus wants us to do, humanity has said, let us make God in our image and in our likeness.

Right? If we don't have the testimony of Jesus, you can make Jesus whatever you want him to be. See, in a perverted pursuit of God, we oftentimes treat the Bible like we do in encyclopedia. Searching for bullet points to a question we already have an answer to. And we don't want to use the Bible as a source. We just really want to use the Bible as a source text to back this up. Because it's got authority. And we say, it's right there. It's black and white. Does this sound familiar or is it just me? Like, are we tracking? Yeah. See, the canon of Scripture that we call the Protestant Bible is not a book of bullet points where God lays out his plan for humanity. One, two, three, four, five. Get these things done. It's an epic narrative where the God of creation redeems and restores what was lost.

See, narratives invite us into the story, giving us glimpses into the nuance, not just the raw, unrelational data points. Right? It's good to know Adam and Eve fell out of the garden. Like, there's more to it than that, right? It's good to know Jesus lived a sinless life. What did that look like? How did he treat people? You guys get my point. See, but this epic narrative that exists within Scripture is not just a story. It's a narrative that helps us put words, thought, and understanding to this singular person, pointing to this one person, Jesus. But to know Jesus, we must seek to know his story and understand his identity in the light of the story of Israel, in the light of God's covenant with Abraham and his descendants. Jesus is the climax and the fulfillment of the Old Testament.

So when the Apostle John writes in John 1 that the word became flesh, it carries with it a meaning and an embodiment that this is the God of the Old Testament in the flesh. The New Testament is essential in a different way for Christiformity. It provides us the primary source material about Jesus and captures the thinking, faith, and practice of his earliest followers. So when you stand back, it's clear that the person of Jesus and the call to Christiformity is the uniting thread within the New Testament. Built on his promise to be conformed to the image of Christ and sharing in the hope of the resurrection, you were predestined. The New Testament is a collection of pastoral documents, each of which written by writers who intended their audience to live a certain way of life.

Christiformity. Which hopefully you've gleaned more fully through our summer series. But nowhere in the New Testament do we get, to throw back to my, I'm a millennial, so I was kind of in the 90s. Like, what would Jesus do? Like, we don't get a list of what Jesus would do. Like, you have to think about it, right? You have to work through, this is what I know of the nature of Jesus. This is how I know Jesus to react in these situations. Therefore, how do I react in these situations? See, instead, in true narrative form, we see snapshots of that in action. We get advice and pastoral guidance. We get celebration and praise when things go well. What do we get when things go wrong? Correction and clarification and rebuke when things are going wrong.

But in every case, in church communities or to the individual being addressed, it is implicitly or explicitly being called to a Christ-like life. Christiformity. So this is what Peter, Paul, James, John, and the other New Testament writers are doing with their letters. Their letters are primarily focused on one particular thing and one particular thread. Who Jesus was and the Christiformity that follows for the followers after that. While they're not exhaustive in what they say about Christiformity, they are authoritative in the fact that they point us to the standard to think about Christiformity. Jesus. See, when we went through prayer and study, we begin to implement the things we know of Jesus and how he did things and begin to live those things out. Christiformity. The New Testament gives us the guidelines of a life conformed to that of Jesus.

I wrote this in here and it's hard, but it doesn't make it any less true. To be out of step with the New Testament's teaching and vision of Christiformity is to be out of step with Christ himself.

Christiformity is most obvious and explicit in the four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. In each, they focus with a unique emphasis on Jesus' style and teaching. Ministry, life, death, and resurrection. They provide in written form their various audiences the basic template for Christiformity, which would be Jesus himself. Because of this, the Gospels have a unique place in our formation and should be especially treasured. This is the standard for me when I'm talking about somebody that's like, man, what does this life of Jesus look like? Who is this Jesus? We can talk about, relationally, we can talk about Jesus. But ultimately, we're going to go to the Gospels, right? We're going to go to, my go-to is starting the book of John. Let's figure out who Jesus is. And another example of that is Matthew ends his Gospel with Jesus explicitly giving commission to his readers

to the worldwide goal of Christianity and Christiformity. Jesus' final words to his disciples in Matthew are, Go, therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Who's heard this called the Great Commission before? Right? But this is what I want us to focus on in the theme of Christiformity. Teaching them to obey everything. Who's the I? Jesus. Everything Jesus has commanded us. And remember, I'm with you to the end of the age. See, our journey towards Christiformity begins when we hear and respond to the call of Christ to us, which comes to us in the power of the Holy Spirit through the word of God and the proclamation of the good news. See, his call to each of us is this loving invitation to come to him and be joined to himself and his people.

This call comes in the form of a message of grace and reconciliation, of conviction of sin and surprise of hope. It corresponds with the ever-increasing reality of our own fragility and powerlessness apart from God. This is all encapsulated and brought to fruition in a personal response of humility and faith experienced in the call to entrust ourselves completely to Jesus. In the language of the Scriptures, Jesus is calling us to repent, believe the good news, and be baptized. Christiformity is characterized by a lifestyle of obedience to Jesus as Lord, confession and repentance when we stumble, and a constant gratitude for undeserved adoption.

Christiformity is, by definition, a communal exercise. This is where we like to throw our American stuff in here, right? Nobody, I'm saying this, nobody is conformed to the image of Jesus as an individual. They can't, I'd venture to say it's almost impossible to do it alone apart from the work of God, but that's not how it's intended. You do not be more conformed to the image of Jesus by yourself. Though the act of Christiformity, right, is individual. I can't make you do it. You cannot force someone to be conformed to the image of Christ, but you're absolutely called to be a part of that experience. See, individually, the act is ours, but nobody can do it alone. To be conformed to Christ is to be joined to a community, to his body, to the church.

See, Apostle Paul says in Ephesians 4, 15 through 16, But speaking the truth in love, let us grow in every way into him who is the head, Christ. From him, the whole body fitted and knit together by every supporting ligament promotes the growth of the body for building itself up in love by the proper working of each individual part. Christiformity happens as each of us are grafted into the body of Christ and find our place within the body. The goal of being formed into the body of Christ is threefold. One, that we might have life, life in the sun, abundant life, here, now, forever, that we, two, that we might experience profound joy, the joy in communion. And three, which is what we like to forget, that this world might know God through us, because we live a life that mirrors our Savior.

To steal some of Scott McKnight's language, rather than focusing, and I love this, rather than focusing on a specific technique or practice, Christiformity, that is a culture formed by Christ's life, by his death, and by his resurrection and ascension. Get this, church. This is to say that the church is not simply a place where everyone is to believe the same things about Christ. That feels weird for us, doesn't it? But as a community that embodies those beliefs about Christ, his death, his life, resurrection and ascension, that we embody those beliefs. We just don't think about them. We embody them, right? The world knows that we are Christ followers by the way they act. I'm going off my notes a little bit, but I heard this the other day, that you may be the only Bible that some people read.

Are they getting a true representation of Jesus with that interaction? Romans 8, 29, right? For those he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. But how do we do that, and what does it look like? I made this joke with my buddy the other day. Who here has seen The Matrix? Okay. I didn't want to lose this, like, generationally. A lot of people. Solid movie. Are we familiar with the red pill and blue pill? Yeah. For those of you not familiar, the red pill and the blue pill are choices, metaphorical choices and terms. The movie presents the red pill. Make sure I don't mix this up. Represents the red pill as accepting a painful but free reality. Or the blue pill is remaining in a state of blissful ignorance and bondage.

The character Neo is offered the choice of taking the red pill to understand the reality outside the matrix illusion or the blue pill to return to ignorant illusion. See, that was the best analogy my mortal mind could come up with when talking about Christoformity. Christoformity is the red pill. By submitting our lives to Jesus, we're doing just that. We are incorporated into him in such a way that our lives are totally reshaped in reference to him. The shape and trajectory of his life, Jesus' life, now defines our own life. As a professing Christian, I'm no longer my own, but I was bought with a price, according to Paul in 1 Corinthians. So my actions, my responses, my lifestyle should look different than those who are not being conformed to the image of Jesus. So often we look for a guarantee of salvation in Christ.

Did I say the right things? Did I do the right thing? Did I say the right words? Was my baptism forwards, backwards? I have a guarantee of your salvation in Jesus today. You know you're being, you know you're being, you know you're saved, being saved, and will be saved. As you see God transform your life more into that of Jesus. Blue pill, that's easy, right? Do what we want. There's lots of things I want to do. And I'm, I'm, full confession, I'm building a straw man argument here. But, you can hate your neighbor over politics and measly things. You don't have to care for anyone but yourself. Justice, don't worry about it. Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. Vengeance, it's yours. You can have the God made in your image. But the red pill, Christiformity.

True Christiformity. It's not easy or comfortable. And oftentimes it's painful and frustrating. But I can testify to its abundant life, and I'm sure you can too. It's joy beyond measure. It's loving your neighbors yourself. Taking care of the poor, the widow, and the orphan. Seeing justice and mercy prevail on a global scale. Watching the Lord of the universe do it all by his hand. And your participation and obedience. All the time being conformed to his image, not mine. Sometimes that's painful. I'm very stubborn. But this is the Christian life on full display. The life of our church with its programs, relationships, experiences, comes back to this. When things are operating rightly, the church is a school of formation into greater and greater Christiformity. The church, the body of Christ, is the continuation of the incarnation.

Carrying out the ministry of Jesus and embodying his presence to the world. This is our call. Kenneth Boa said this in his book, Conformed to the Image. And this was like three slides long. But it was so good. So I included it. When we fail to nurture this consciousness of calling to a radical commitment of Jesus, we lose our way in this deceptive and alluring world. On an individual and corporate level, we begin to play by two sets of rules and try to have it both ways.

The world's and God's, right? I can say mine and God's. I want to play by two rules. This becomes possible when we compartmentalize our faith and divorce it from other facets of life, such as work, finances, friendships, marriage, parenting. This divorce between the spiritual and secular leads to substantial disparities between belief and behavior and an amazing ability to overlook these consistencies. St. Ambrose put it, You are a sort of imposter when your profession and your practice disagree. We have become comfortable imposters who claim to know Christ, but whose character is not noticeably different than that of the ambient culture. Get this last line. The disparity between 11 a.m. on a Sunday morning and 11 a.m. on a Monday morning can be enormous.

Folks, the disparity between 11 a.m. on a Sunday morning and 11 a.m. on a Monday morning can be enormous. At the heart of our journey into ever-increasing Christiformity is the central sacrament of the church, the Eucharist or communion, depending on your church background. Communion reminds us of who we are. We are the body of Christ. It transforms us, like we talked about, personally and individually, heart, mind, and soul, while simultaneously forming our collective social reality. We are individuals, but we are part of one body. If we are being conformed to the image of Jesus, we are part of His body. In the Eucharist, we corporately re-enact the pattern of Christiformity and are renewed as the body of Christ, receiving tangibly Christ's body and blood. We remember Christ as we are re-membered into His body. We are made into the body of which we consume.

So the mysterious meal given to us by Jesus encapsulates both the means and the end of Christiformity. As such, it's been the heartbeat of the Christian identity and practice since the earliest days of the church, which is why I wanted it front and center today. It's why we're here. This is why we're here.

You can open up your Spotify and find a better worship set, a better teaching set. I know you can open up any medley of things and find solid teaching, solid worship. It's not why we're here. For all the technology of the world, we can't replace the communion table of Jesus.

Where we come together to partake the body together that Christ broke for us. We come together to partake the blood that Christ spilled for us. And communion, like Christiformity, has this unique tension, this tension that we constantly remind you guys of. I feel like we're always talking about tension. Communion, like Christiformity, is uniquely personal, even uniquely individualistic. I can't take communion for you. But as you enter communion individually, I believe you leave it communally. You're reconnected to the body of Christ. Everyone in this room that partakes of the body and blood of Jesus together is a brother or sister of the firstborn of that family, Jesus. So we're no longer individuals, but part of his body. Which is why I love the picture of the bread. Donovan, I can break this, right? Where's Donovan at?

He's around there somewhere. You don't know. Oh, he's back in youth room. I'm breaking it. Don't tell him. I love this picture. How many, who's seen a wheat field? How many individual pieces of wheat are out there? How many pieces of those wheat go in to make this? How many, are they, can you tell them? You see wheat from, no, no, right? They've now been recombined into one body. Same with the wine. Or in this case, grape juice, prefer it be wine. I'll spill it. Who can tell the individual grapes in their juice? Who knows? Well, this grape came from Idaho. I don't know where grapes come from. But, you get my point. Potatoes come from, yeah, potatoes come from, I know, I knew that. But, who can tell? This one grape came from here.

This one grape came from California. That's where grapes come from. This one grape came from California. Can I get a hint of Virginia grapes? No, it's combined into one body of wine. So, we're going to do something uniquely different today. Ryan's not here, and I got to take charge of it, so if it's weird, just don't tell him we did it.

Today, I want to parallel the uniqueness of communion with God, but also the uniqueness of your individuality, but also your communal mindset. Just as we're conformed to the image of Jesus, we're going to close with this mysterious piece of remembrance that Jesus left us with. As always, the prayer tent's open, and I'll be available up front if anybody would like to talk about anything. But, I'm going to ask you to come up and do communion. Take it. Sit. Reflect. Talk to somebody about what communion means to them, what it means to you. But, we're going to close today with communion, the whole reason we're here. So, church. Oh, if you want to fellowship, you don't want to hang around, just kind of go out and lobby. We'll leave the sanctuary reserved kind of as a time of reflection or quiet conversation.

Church together, if you're so called, exit to the right of your rows. We don't have a map. Oh, he does have a map. My man's on it. Also, in the asterisk, bread is gluten-free. We're not in cups. We're just in bed. It's also gluten-free, so you're good to go. But, church, together, if you are so called, exit to the right of where you are, sitting, and let us receive communion together. Come individually. Leave communally. Together with Jesus and each other. I'm not going to leave it. I'm going to do it as I do it. Just for the sake of time. But, I want you to keep that in mind. Enter individually. Leave communally. In the heart of Christiformity. Come in peace, church.
