GENEROSITY: Watch Out For the Greed!
2024-09-16
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E5UmttWjTV0

A biblical theology of generosity does not start with tithing, or even Jesus' command to be generous to the poor. It starts before time and space, with who God is. Since the beginning of Scripture, the world itself was created as an act of generous love, with God as a joyful, generous host, the world as His home, and you and I as His special guests. And from the inner nature of God, giving becomes our nature. And little by little, He makes our souls incandescent. Well, good morning, everyone. I hope you all are doing well. If we haven't had the privilege of meeting yet, my name is Ryan, and I have the privilege of being one of the pastors here at Canvas Community Church. And last week, we started our third Practicing the Way practice. If you're not familiar, Practicing the Way is a church-wide curriculum that we are using within our small groups

aimed at helping us become more obedient disciples of Jesus. And one of Jesus' most famous sermons, He ends the sermon by saying, blessed are those who hear these words and put them into practice. We do not want to be a church who hears the teachings of Jesus, agrees with the teachings of Jesus, and goes out to lunch and forgets all about it. We want to be a church of people who take serious the commands of Jesus and through a personal relationship with the Holy Spirit, look to apply them the way that God is calling them, you and me and us, to apply them. These practices are not meant to be legalistic requirements to gain some kind of added level of holiness before God. These are invitations into a deeper personal relationship with God. And so don't do them if you're just doing them because you think you're supposed to do them to be a good person.

Actually, Jesus has some of the harshest words to say to the Pharisees who are literally so good at doing all of the rules. They're better than you can ever be at doing the rules. And Jesus looks at them and gives them some strict, severe warnings because the rules are not the point. The point is the relationship and the whole person heart transformation. So that's what we're after with the Practicing the Way series. And this practice in particular is about generosity. And I, if you weren't here last week, I gave some disclaimers about money sermons in churches. So if you missed those disclaimers, I will, I'm sorry.

I, I love to talk about money in church. Church should talk about money all the time. Actually, the more you give to our church, the more God, I'm just kidding. That was not the disclaimer. The disclaimer is the church has often done a bad job talking about money. And I just want to make it clear from the outset as we are addressing the topic of money and generosity, that the goal of this series is not that you would give us more of your money. We're doing pretty well. We're paying our bills. God is gracious. And when Jesus talks about money, I want you to know very clearly that Jesus does not need your money. Actually, all of your money is already his. That he's inviting you to use them in alignment with his kingdom. And that he's doing that not to take from you, but actually to give to you.

That the teachings of Jesus are going to sound harsh and difficult and challenging to many of us in the room. And it's because we've been more discipled by our culture. And the idea is that our stuff is our stuff. And we deserve to get to use it how we want to use it. And nothing could be further from the truth. And so when Jesus invites us into this posture of generosity and contentment and living with open hand as if everything is God's, it's actually for your joy and for your life. So those are some of my disclaimers. Last week we talked about the natural propensity in the human heart to store up wealth. We like to put it away. We like to save it. And we do this because we want to feel secure. We want to feel safe.

We want to feel at peace. And Jesus warned us last week that earthly wealth is futile and subject to the brokenness of this world. It's where moth and rust destroy. No matter how much you put away. No matter how much you save. No matter how safe you think you are. This world is broken. And you'll never accumulate enough. You'll never store up enough to feel truly safe. His solution was to store up treasures in heaven by living sacrificially and generously. And he promises that that mindset will actually lead to life. So if you missed last week, that's where we were. And this week we're going to turn our eyes to the natural propensity in the human heart. Not to store up wealth for safety and security, but to accumulate wealth so that we can spend it for our pleasure and our joy.

So just real quick, a fun survey. If you would consider yourself a saver, raise your hand. You're a saver. Okay, decent amount of us in the room. So last week's message was probably going to be harder for you than this week's message. Now, if you're a spender, do me a favor. Raise your hand. All right, we got some spenders in the room. Good. All right, well, it's your turn to sit on the hot seat. Last week was the hot seat for savers. This week is going to be, oh, I think what I hear breaking out right now is husbands and wives who sit on opposite. Is that what's going on? We got savers and spenders and they're elbowing each other. Did you listen last week? Are you going to listen this week? All right. So I like it.

There's a felt need in the room for both talks. This week, we're going to talk about the desire to accumulate things so that we can spend it. What does Jesus have to say about this pursuit and what solutions might he give us to fight back against this dangerous temptation? Does that sound like a good plan? Awesome. Let's pray. Oh, Father in heaven. Everything we have is yours. True security, safety, peace, and joy is ultimately found in you. And yet, day in and day out, moment by moment, we will be tempted and drawn away to believe that we can find our own joy, our own satisfaction, our own peace. Apart from you, God, every day, every day is placed in our lives. The tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and we are tempted to believe, not to trust you, but to take a bite from the forbidden tree.

God, may this series be a reminder to us that you truly are a loving father, a good, good father who wants good gifts for us. May we learn to trust you in the midst of our insecurity and our fear and our greed and our worry. Holy Spirit, make us believe what is true. Make us aware of where we are believing things that aren't true. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen. All right, so a couple months ago, Marissa and I, actually, I guess it was a couple years ago at this point, Marissa and I were in the market for a new mattress. And mattress shopping is a pretty serious deal in the Miller household. We don't spend a pretty penny on a lot of things, but if we're going to spend a majority of our life in a spot, we should probably invest in it, right?

So Marissa and I are debating and looking and sending articles and having this conversation. And I don't know about you, but when that starts to happen, the rest of my life is inundated with ads for whatever that thing is. Did any of you ever have this experience? What's crazy is it's gotten better. You used to have to at least, like, type it in order for, like, the people who want you to buy their stuff to know that you're looking for their stuff. Now all you have to do is, like, mention it in a casual conversation to one of your friends, right? And your feed is filled with advertisements for the thing that you had one conversation about. For most of us, a huge portion of the content that we engage with on a regular basis, on a daily basis,

is intentionally curated advertisements trying to persuade you to believe that if you just bought the next product, that if you just went on the next trip, that if you just got the next subscription, your happiness level would increase. Executives spend billions of dollars every year on these advertisements. And these executives, I hate to break it to you, they're pretty smart and they're good at numbers. They would not invest the money if it didn't work. They're spending this money because it's working. It is persuading us to believe the messaging that they are teaching us. We are being more discipled by advertisements than we are by the Son of God who came, lived a perfect life, and taught us how to view our stuff. The human heart is prone to believe this myth of more. We look at people above us on the economic ladder and we think,

if I had that car, those clothes, that house, that pool, that membership, or took that trip, then I would be happy. Then I would be content. And here's the crazy part. The maddening part as a pastor, and just as a human being really, is the people that you were looking at, they're looking at the person one step above them in the economic ladder, and they're thinking, well, if I had that car, that house, if I was able to go on that trip or join that club, then I would be happy. Psychologists call this the hedonic treadmill. Constantly chasing pleasure. We hop on the treadmill and we are chasing pleasure. And yet we arrive nowhere and become exhausted in the process. And all of my people who don't like to work out are like, yeah, that's why I stay away from the treadmill.

It's pointless, right? You get on, you get off, you went nowhere, and you're tired. This is what we're doing, many of us, as we view our finances. And the crazy thing is it's not a modern phenomenon. It's not the executives that are convincing us to do something that humans have never done before. Listen to the words of Solomon, one of the wisest men who ever lived a few thousand years ago. He says this, those who love money will never have enough. How meaningless to think that wealth brings true happiness. And all of my spenders said, can we get an intermission so I can go to the bathroom and not come back? Right? So, with all that in mind, it should not come to a surprise to us that many of Christ's teachings about money, remember we said last week that Christ, a lot of scholars think that up to 25% of Jesus' teachings are about our money and our possessions.

And in that breakdown, it shouldn't be a surprise to us that a lot of what Jesus has to say about our money is less about what we do with what we have and more about avoiding this myth of more. More about avoiding buying into the next thing. The more you get, the better your life will be. Let's quickly take a look at three of Christ's warnings about this idea of getting more. Look, in Luke chapter 12, verse 15, his first warning is that greed is dangerous. Greed is dangerous. In Luke chapter 12, verse 15, he says, Beware, guard against every kind of greed. I don't know about you, but when Jesus says something with an exclamation point, I'm going to listen a little bit more intently, right? Like, he is emphatic about this, beware, be on guard, look out for every kind of greed in your life.

I love how John Mark Homer, the author of the Practicing the Way curriculum, defines greed. He says, greed is a lusting for things. A lusting for things. It is a transactional interaction between us and stuff. And we think the more stuff we get, the more experiences we have, the more things we accumulate, then that longing in our heart will be satisfied. It's a form of idolatry. It takes things and puts them on the same level as God or higher in our hearts. And we can see how this relationship might be dangerous, right? When we elevate things in our life, it has the power to do a lot of damage. And this is Christ's warning. He says, beware, look out for it. It's dangerous. As a matter of fact, the statement that Jesus makes here, I'm just going to leave it there because every time I try and fix it, I get louder.

Good? Okay. The statement that Jesus makes here is in response to a young man who comes to Jesus, right? A teacher of the Scriptures. And this man comes to Jesus and he says, tell my brother to share the inheritance with me. Now, is Jesus responding to his question at all or is he doing what Jesus does and ignoring the question and getting to the root of the guy's issue? That was a hypothetical question. He's ignoring the guy's question and getting to the root of the issue. He says, beware, guard against every kind of greed. I think what Jesus is doing here is he's helping the guy see your desire for wealth, your desire for more is putting you at odds with your brother. This relationship that should be far more important than stuff. You're coming to me and you're trying to convince me to tell your brother what he should do with the money that's been entrusted to him.

The greed in your heart is actually causing you to value stuff over the people that you're in familial relationship with. It's important that we notice that there are multiple forms of greed. I don't know about you, but I am very good at noticing greed in other people's lives, especially people who are greedy for things that I think are silly. Am I the only one? Yes. Man, the more Jay gets to know me, the more comfortable he feels heckling me in the middle of a sermon. Right? Like, I look at people who lust for cars. Like, if it runs, it works for me. Right? I'm not a car guy. And so I look at people who lust for cars and I'm like, they are greedy. How dare they? How dare they view such a thing as bringing them value in life?

And then I get an invitation to a private golf club once a week at $120 a clip. And I'm like, you know what? I work hard.

I could move some money around here. Right? I could find it. Really? Right? Like, I could find some cash and it wouldn't be that big of a deal. We tend to demonize people who are greedy for things that we find silly. Meanwhile, we justify our own greediness. We should all heed Jesus' warnings to be on guard against every kind of greed in our lives. And focus more on the kind that's in your life and not the kind that's in your neighbor's life. So, what are some things that you're lusting after? What are some products or experiences you daydream about getting? What things do you already have that consume much of your time, energy, and resources? Greed is dangerous, says Christ. The second thing he says is that greed is deceitful. He says that he's talking about the parable of the sower of the seeds.

He's explaining it to the disciples because they didn't know what the heck he was talking about. I don't know if you've read the Gospels lately, but they often didn't know what the heck he was talking about. And sometimes he was gracious enough to explain it to them. And other times he was like, it's not worth it. You'll figure it out later. It's fine. So, this is one of those times where he was explaining it to them. And he says, The seed that fell among the thorns represents those who hear God's word. But all too quickly, the message is crowded out by the worries of this life. Listen to this. This is an individual who has received the message of the kingdom of God. That a loving father creator has initiated a relationship with them. That they can live for eternal things rather than temporary things.

The greatest message on earth has been given to them. And they have received it. And yet, after a little bit of time, this idea of eternity mattering more than temporary things is choked out by their desire for more stuff. The lure of wealth. Jesus says, greed is deceitful. It convinces you that what is less important is more important. It convinces us that temporary things are more important than eternal things. Is it possible? Some of us in this room have intellectually received the message of the kingdom of God. We agree with it. We believe it. And yet, if you look at our lives, our lives are more concerned with the lure of wealth and the desire for things. Jesus says, the proper response to the kingdom of God is not, yep, that's great. I love it.

Stuff. He says, the proper response to the kingdom of God is this. The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure that a man discovered hidden in a field. In his excitement, he hid it again and he sold everything that he owned to get enough money to buy the field. The kingdom of God is so much more valuable than any lure of wealth or desire for more things. And yet, it lies to us. Stuff lies to us. It causes us to believe that it's more important than it actually is. And we end up wasting our life chasing after things rather than investing in the kingdom of God, which will last forever. We make bad investments for short-term gain. Greed is dangerous. It's deceitful. And the third thing he says is it's distracting. Jesus said to his disciples, I tell you the truth, it is very hard for a rich person to enter the kingdom of heaven.

I'll say it again. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. This is probably one of Christ's hardest-hitting statements about wealth and greed. And most of us in the room, when we hear it, are thinking about a person and economic status above us. None of us think that we're rich. Right? But in this Jewish context, rich meant you had access to food and clothing and shelter. Right? If you have access, this should be a warning to all of us, most of us, most of us in this room have access to the earthly resources we need. Food, shelter, clothing. Access to earthly resources distracts us from seeking the kingdom of God, from seeing the kingdom of God as more valuable than accumulating earthly possessions.

It's distracting. I had a friend who was a youth pastor a few years back in Cary, North Carolina. Anybody ever heard of Cary, North Carolina? Apparently, I've been there once. Apparently, it's like one of the wealthiest counties in the country. It's like the tech triangle, research triangle of Carolina. And he was talking about how every single one of his students are rich. They're loaded. They all drive like Mercedes and BMWs to high school. It's crazy. And I'll never forget the line that he told me. He looked me in the eye. I was talking to him about how ministry is going, how church is going. He looked me in the eye and he said, Try telling kids who have never needed anything in their entire life that they need Jesus. This is the distracting nature of stuff.

Those of us that have access to more than enough things, we lose sight of what matters most. The more stuff we have, the more stuff we accumulate, the more distracted we get. The more we're pulled in to invest in temporary earthly pleasures rather than the kingdom of God. Most of us in this room, we have access to more than the basic necessities of life, which would put us in the category of rich. We should take this warning seriously, not to let wealth distract us from his kingdom. Now, if you're depressed, take a deep breath. Thank you. Me and Jay are depressed up here. All right. There's good news. There's good news. He goes on to say that it's not impossible that anything is possible with God. And Americans, we need to hold tight to this truth that by the power of the Holy Spirit,

those of us in the room who are most of us, who have access to a lot, we don't necessarily have to sell everything we have to live in God's kingdom, but we need to seek to submit everything we have to his purposes. By the power of the Holy Spirit, with a personal relationship with the Spirit, we can steward the things that God has given us in a way that builds into his kingdom and keeps us focused on what is most important in life.

At this point, you might be thinking, I love when I write this. I have to read this in my notes because I think I'm funnier than I am. At this point, you might be thinking, does Jesus just warn against the dangers of greed or does he offer any practical wisdom on how to avoid greed in our lives? I'm so glad you guys asked that question. The first passage we looked at in Luke chapter 12, I stopped it in the middle because I'm cheeky and now I'm going to give you the rest. Also, I've been watching a lot of Bluey, so you're going to hear me say cheeky a lot more. Welcome to fatherhood. Okay. Here is the rest of the verse we started with. Beware, guard against every kind of greed. Life is not measured by how much you own.

He goes on in Matthew 6, Seek the kingdom of God above all else and live righteously and he will give you everything you need. The word used to describe this attitude towards stuff is called contentment. And it is the opposite of greed. This is Jesus' solution for those of us who are tempted to live after the desires of our heart, to seek pleasure in earthly things. He says that if we want to fight against that, if we want to truly live for the kingdom of God on earth as it is in heaven, we've got to learn to be content with what we have and invest what we have in the kingdom. I love how Randy Alcorn defines contentment. He says contentment is being satisfied in whose you are, who you are, and what you have.

This is the goal for followers of Jesus, that we would learn to be satisfied as children of God, loved, adopted, brought into the family of God, that we have everything that we need in him.

See, at the heart of much of our greed is the desire to be happy or satisfied, so we jump on the hedonic treadmill, chasing after our desires, and we get nowhere, and we're exhausted. So if greed is like a treadmill, contentment is like a recliner. That's pretty good. Come on. All right. Thank you, thank you, thank you. If greed is like a treadmill, contentment is like a recliner, let's learn to find rest and be satisfied in God. I want to look at what the Apostle Paul has to say about contentment in 1 Timothy chapter 6. If you want to follow along with me, we're going to read a couple of paragraphs from 1 Timothy chapter 6 as we start to get practical about how not to chase greed and to find contentment. 1 Timothy 6, verses 6 through 8.

Paul says, True godliness with contentment is itself great wealth. After all, we brought nothing with us when we came into the world, and we can take nothing with us when we leave it. So if we have enough food and enough clothing, we should be content. I love how Paul defines contentment here. He says that contentment is great wealth. This is the opposite of what we think about great wealth, right? We think more stuff equals great wealth. Paul says being satisfied with what you have is actually the only way to experience true wealth. True wealth is learning to be content with what you have. He quotes the famous passage from Job. Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked I shall return. We all know this concept in our heads, right? We know that we've all heard the illustration

that you've never seen a hearse hauling a U-Haul, right? Like, we know it. You can't take your stuff with you. It doesn't come with you. We look at the Egyptians who bury their princes in pyramids full of stuff, and we're like, that's silly and outdated and crazy, and yet we look at our lives. I look at my life. Do I actually live as if nothing I have is coming with me, or do I keep pursuing the next thing and the next thing in hopes that it will satisfy me? We all know this concept to be true, but many of us rarely let it impact the way we live.

Nothing we accumulate for ourselves on earth is coming with us, so why should we make it the focal point of so much of our activity? One of my favorite verses in the Bible, Ecclesiastes chapter three, verse 11. God has placed eternity in your heart. There's this void inside of each one of us. We were created for eternal things. It's why the message of the kingdom of God is the most important message in all of human history. It's that heaven is coming back to earth, that we can exist for all of eternity in relationship with God, that we can begin to live for eternal things now. God has placed eternity in your heart, and that is why nothing earthly you ever think will satisfy you, satisfies you.

Contentment is learning to be satisfied with what you have. I love what Paul says in 2 Corinthians 12. He says, My grace, this is Jesus speaking to Paul, My grace is all that you need. My power works best in weakness. Jesus tells Paul, Don't worry about living in poverty. Don't worry about having a physical ailment. Don't worry about me not answering the prayer that you want me to answer. My grace is all that you need. I will sustain you. I will satisfy you. True contentment can only be found when we accept that we are eternal beings created for eternal purposes, and no earthly possession will ever satisfy the deepest longings of our heart. He goes on. Verse 9, But people who long to be rich fall into temptation and are trapped by many foolish and harmful desires

that plunge them into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, and some people, listen to this, craving money, craving money, have wandered from the true faith and pierced themselves with many sorrows.

I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time here because I think what we can see here is that Paul is recapping a lot of what Jesus already said about greed. It's dangerous. It's deceitful. It's distracting. It leads us to all kinds of sorrows. Verse 10. I want to read that again.

For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, and some people craving money have wandered from the true faith and pierced themselves with many sorrows. It's important here that we point out that it's not just the pursuit of money that leads to many sorrows. It can actually be the success of getting a lot of money that leads to many sorrows. We think, oh, it's just the pursuit, but if I'm really good at making money and it's not hard for me, then it won't lead to sorrows. Jay, quit preaching my sermon for me, man. He ruined my joke. All right, next line. We quoted Jesus. We quoted Paul. It's time to quote the notorious V-I-G. Mo' money, mo' problem.

Right? It's not just the pursuit of money that leads to sorrow. It's the success of money. John Mark Homer talks about this thing called the time tax, right? The more stuff we have, the more time it takes to keep up with all of the stuff that we have. My dad, I remember when I was like 14, 15 years old, we didn't grow up with a lot of money. My dad saved up as much money as he could, and he bought a $1,200 John boat, right? Like metal cast boat with a little battery-powered trolling motor on it. Do you know how much money that $1,200 boat cost? It did not cost $1,200, I'll tell you that much, because every time I looked around, he was in the backyard putting money to fix it. Right? The more stuff that we have,

the more things we accumulate, the more time we spend earning enough money to pay for the upkeep. I'm looking at all in my boat, I'm finding all of my boat owners in the room. Where are they at? Right? We know this. Motorcycle owners, whatever it might be, the more stuff we have, the more money it costs to keep up with it. I almost missed one of my boat owners. All right, there we go. I think I got all of you. All right. The more we have, the more exhausted we are trying to keep up with it all. Stuff over promises and under delivers and it leads us to many sorrows. This is Jesus' warning to all of us as followers of Jesus. If you want the abundant life, if you want satisfaction, if you want peace,

if you want contentment, learn to be satisfied with what you have. All right, as we begin to wrap up, I want to get really practical here so that I don't just make us all depressed and sad. Hopefully we can leave with a smile on our face if the Holy Spirit chooses to allow it. All right, here's the good news. If you're in here and you're like, man, I just don't think I'm a very content person. It's not that you're either content or you're not content. That's the good news. The good news is that Paul and the Bible say that we can actually learn to be content. It's not something you're born with or born without. It's something that can be developed here. Paul in Philippians chapter four says, I have learned the secret of being content

in every situation. We studied Paul's life. Paul was poor and in prison. He says, content. Paul had positions of power that put him in relationship with those in great authority. He would sit down and have the ear of very powerful leaders. He says, if I'm in that situation or if I'm in a dungeon prison, I'm content either way because I am satisfied in who I am and whose I am and what I have. Contentment is something that we can learn. And I think the best intentional practice, the best thing that we can do practically to learn contentment is something that our Anabaptist brothers and sisters call simple living. Simple living isn't voluntary poverty, although sometimes God might call some people to voluntary poverty. Imagine what the world would be like without Mother Teresa, right? Sometimes God invites

unique people into unique situations. But simple living isn't voluntary poverty. It's an intentional decision to live on less than what you make so that you can give more away to those in need. John Mark Homer defines it this way. He says, it's limiting the number of our possessions, expenses, activities, and social obligations to a level where we are free to live joyfully and generously in the kingdom of God with Jesus. I'm going to read that again because Frederick County 2024, this is not our ideology. Limiting the number of your possessions, expenses, here's where it gets real tough, activities and social obligations to a level where you can freely live freely to live joyfully and generously in the kingdom with Jesus. If we want to be content, we've got to stop asking the question, what else can I get?

Start asking the question, what can I live without? What things has God given me that I don't actually need but I can actually leverage to help those who are in need?

I heard an incredible story from a family in our church this week, this is not in my notes but it just came to my mind, of a family that was cleaning out their upstairs, they had stuff that's been there for who knows how long, probably longer than it should have been. They were cleaning it out and they decided to put it at the front lawn for free, right? One of those things was a crib mattress and an elderly woman knocked on their door and said, are you selling the stuff out front? They said, no, it's free, you can have it. Turns out that this woman was driving through the neighborhood delivering groceries for one of the delivery services and she's in her 70s, I believe, and has inherited two grandchildren under one year old from children

who are addicted. She's like, I really need this, can I have it? Like, yeah, not only can you have that, but what else do you need and how can we help you? This is an illustration of what happens when we just take an inventory of the stuff in our life. That wasn't even like a sacrificial ask, that was just a cleaning out of stuff that was, shouldn't have been there to begin with. And God used that as an incredible open door for them to be instruments of the kingdom of God in someone's life who is in need and is struggling. This is God's vision vision for your stuff. Not that you would get more so that you can have more, but that the stuff that you have would be leveraged to help those around you

who don't have as much. Simple living. Less about what can I get and more about what can I do with what I have. It should be done prayerfully. Ask the Holy Spirit to reveal to you the unnecessary possessions and expenses and activities or social obligations that are actually distracting you from the things that matter most. I'm going to read 1 Timothy chapter 6 going down to verse 17. He continues his thought here. He says, teach those who are rich in this world to sell everything they have and be poor. Is anybody reading along with me?

All right, good. See, there we go. It doesn't say that. Teach those who are rich in this world not to be proud and not to trust in their money which is unreliable. Their trust should be in God who richly gives all that we need for our enjoyment. God richly gives all that we need for our enjoyment. Tell them to use their money to do good. They should be rich in good works and generous to those in need always being ready to share with others. By doing this, they will be storing up treasures as a good foundation for the future so that they may experience true life. Notice, Paul doesn't say to Timothy, teach the rich people to stop being rich. If you're here and you have a lot, it's possible that Jesus' invitation to you

might be sell everything and live in poverty. it's likely that God would say you've got to get a better mindset around your stuff and realize that it's actually not yours, that I've entrusted you with it to do good to those who are in need. This is how contentment works. We start to view our stuff, everything that we have, as a gift from God. We stop asking, what else can I get? And we start asking, what can I live without? I've mentioned this to you all before. I have a prayer prompt that I pray through every Sunday that I'm preaching. And one of the prompts is that I pray that this will be the most fruitful and effective sermon I've ever preached. Some weeks, it's easier to pray that prayer than others, right? When I'm doing

just like a random verse study through Leviticus, I'm like, yeah, God, this is going to be the most effective and fruitful sermon I've ever preached. I can't wait. Sometimes it's harder than others. This week, it was not hard at all to preach this because I, or to pray this because I wholeheartedly believe that if many of us would choose to pursue contentment through simplicity, we would be set free to live generously. We could have the power to transform the community that we live in. I think many of us well-intended Christians, myself included, we tend to adopt the spending norms of the world around us. Right? We spend money the same way our neighbors spend money and they spend money the same way that their neighbors spend money and all of it is kind of subconsciously

driven by the marketing of our world. We're chasing after the next thing to find satisfaction from the next thing and oftentimes we just adopt the spending patterns of the rest of the world. Our neighbor gets a new car, our car's looking a little ratty, we can afford the car payment so let's get the car. Right? We adopt the spending norms of the culture around us. We think because our neighbors have certain things or are involved in certain activities we should be as well. We often have a sense of entitlement around stuff. We work hard so we deserve X, Y, and Z. Jay, is it just me this time or? Okay, cool.

So, last thing I'm gonna meddle just one more time and it's because I love you and it's also because I love my future self and I can see me buying into this very quickly and easily and so please receive this in love. I think many of us in this room have heard this sermon and you're like, you know what? I'm not greedy and I would agree with you. You're not greedy for yourselves but I think many of us in this room are greedy for our children. We spend so much time and energy and money to get them the nicest things to ensure that they have every experience that they want to ensure that they get to do all of the things that their friends get to do. We fill our lives and our schedules and we stretch

our budgets in order to give our kids everything that they could ever want and it's done out of a good heart. It's a beautiful thing in theory but I think it's setting our children up for failure. I think we are subtly teaching them that true satisfaction is found in stuff and in experiences and in wealth and I don't know if you've taken a look at the economic situation in our country but the odds that they're going to have access to enough money to do the things that you have set them up thinking it's the only way that they can be happy and satisfied and fulfilled not looking pretty. Followers of Jesus we are invited to teach our children that true satisfaction true contentment true life is found in whose we are and who God has made us to be.

What would happen if we pulled the emergency cord on the hedonic treadmill that we often find ourselves on? What if instead of following the cultural spending norms we broke the mold and truly sought first the kingdom of God? What if instead of using our money to get more stuff we chose to live on less so that we could give more away? Greed is dangerous and deceitful and distracting but contentment is where true life and abundance are found. I just want to remind everybody once again I did this last week if you weren't here I'm trying to talk about big picture principles these messages will apply to each of us drastically different. I'm not trying to tell you what to do I'm asking you to invite the Holy Spirit to give you wisdom to do what he's calling you

to do. I want to share a quick story I'm listening to a podcast this week two guys from who met at Harvard Business getting their MBA I think that's a thing right? Alright cool I always get these initials all mixed around and if I don't put them in my notes then I'm afraid I'm going to confidently say something that is not right so I'm glad I pulled that out they both went to Harvard Business to get an MBA they were both Christians at the time both making six figure plus as 20 year olds and they both tithed to their local church and they said we felt like that was what we were supposed to do we were doing the good Christian thing 10% of our money is God's all the rest of our money is ours

one of them was a spender one of them was a saver they both were very ambitious and had plans to make a ton of money for the rest of their lives so that they could save and retire early or have all of the things right they both had two very different perspectives they met each other at Harvard Business they took a class on money at Harvard Divinity School as an elective because they're crazy I guess I don't know seems like a wild choice to me but they began to be wrecked by what the Scriptures had to say about money and possessions they realized that it was far more holistic than they had thought it was less about just a legalistic task that they were supposed to do and more about an invitation to view everything

they had as a gift from God they wrote a 90 page paper that I think was only supposed to be 20 pages or something like that so you know overachievers go to Harvard it's just it is what it is but as their paper started getting circulated they both got a job offer from a non-profit who encourages people who encourages Christians to view their stuff as God's and to give it away and I don't know what you know about non-profits but non-profits aren't handing out six figure jobs and so they're both like what is happening God like I I'm going to make a lot of money and now that I know this stuff I'm going to give it all back to you it's going to be great right the reason I share this story is because they both

got the same job offer and they both made very different decisions based on their personal relationship with God and the Holy Spirit one gave up all of his potential earning effort earning possibility and started working for a non-profit because he felt like that was what the Lord was calling him to do the other kept climbing up the ladder making more and more money but deciding to intentionally limit the amount of money that they spent on themselves so that they could give more and more away my goal with all of these teachings is not to tell you what to do with your money but to tell you what Jesus the big picture principles Jesus is inviting you into and let you interact with the Holy Spirit in your community we had a wonderful conversation at small group

last week with a small group of men that know each other how do you think should I do this should I do that one guy was like hey I'm thinking about buying a truck I'm gonna get your permission before I do it is that cool I'm like I'm gonna tell you no but sure if you want my permission anyway my point is all of this is invitational all of it is so that you might find more abundant life in obedience to Jesus in bringing about and investing in his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven so we end each week with a practice last week was an act of spontaneous generosity raise your hand if you were able to participate in an act of spontaneous generosity last week some of you great if you didn't

get to it last week you can get to it this week and you can do two in one week it'd be great this week's practice ask the Holy Spirit to reveal a valuable possession that you can either give away to someone in need or sell and give the money away to the poor this is invitational you don't have to do it it doesn't make you holier it's just so that you can interact with the teachings of Jesus and put them into practice bonus practice if you want more if you like that's easy I could and don't make it

prayerfully look over your budget your possessions and your calendar ask the Holy Spirit if there's anything you can remove from your life in order to free up time to invest more time and more resources into the kingdom remember these are not legalistic requirements but invitations don't do something out of guilt or religious duty do them if you want to take seriously Christ's teachings to be not just a hearer of the word but a doer also let's pray father I've been following you long enough to know that when you say something it's true even when it's hard I've been following you long enough to know that when I drag my feet to be obedient to the things that you tell me to be obedient to it actually makes life harder and that when I open my

hands and surrender to you that the abundant life that you promised actually follows it just follows in a way that I wasn't expecting or anticipating so father I pray as we interact with these difficult challenging teachings for many of us about our possessions and our wealth and our finances God that we would learn to have the perspective of Peter where else can I go you have the words of eternal life may we learn to be content in all that you have given us may we learn to invest first to seek first the kingdom of God and trust you with the rest and God I pray I pray that another of us in this room as we go throughout this practice that we would embrace your ideology of wealth and possessions and that through doing that

God that our community would be transformed that the needy among us would feel our decision to trust you with our stuff that we would actually be using it for those in need and that your kingdom would grow and expand as people see your followers obeying your teaching for your glory and for our neighbors good in Jesus name I pray amen that was long I am sorry please stand and I will bless you as you leave we're going to end every session from this four weeks teaching with this benediction adapted from the Scripture may God bless you abundantly so that in all things at all times you may have all that you need may you freely scatter your gifts to the poor may God who supplies who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food

also supply and increase your store of seeds and enlarge your harvest of your righteousness may you be enriched in every way so that you can be generous on every occasion and may your generosity result in thanksgiving to God amen go in peace church peace peace peace
