Sunday @ Canvas Community Church
2024-07-01
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d8ot8JyHnAY

We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. Let's pray. Let's pray. Let's pray. Oh, good morning. Good morning, Canvas. Woo! Wonderful. Well, can you all hear me? Yes. I think you could hear me even if I didn't have this. Wonderful. Well, welcome. I see that people are still trickling in and some people are just seated and waiting expectantly. So here we are, guys. Welcome to Canvas. We are so, so pleased that you are here. Whether you've been coming for many, many years, months, consistently, whether you've been dropping in a few times or maybe today is even your first day here, welcome. And we just hope that you feel the love in this place. If this is your first time here, then hopefully you have seen the Welcome Center, which is right out front in the lobby, where you've been greeted and kind of led in the right direction.

If you have children, just showing you where to drop them off, where the snacks are, how to get right in here. If you have not, please go ahead and check them out on your way out of here, and they will, again, be able to just answer any questions and connect you. So we do have a Canvas Connect card. If you have one, could you just hold that up for me real quick? I'm sure you were given it on your way in. Perfect. You can fill that out. You can scan this digital code up here, and it will connect you just to our website. And emails and anything else you might be curious about for this church. And also at the Welcome Center, they do leave you with a nice little gift, a parting gift. So please, if you are new, go get welcomed at the Welcome Center.

All right. And my name is Caroline, and I'm just here, obviously, to deliver a few announcements before we begin our wonderful worship and hear the message from Pastor Ryan. So let's get started on that. I'm going to start with men. All right. You men, you have a couple of amazing things coming up. Number one is the men's retreat. That's going to be on October 11th and 12th. So put that on the radar or put it on someone else's radar. I say this because I put it on my radar for my husband to get signed up. You want to register by September 13th. The theme and the topic is the hunted. And so you will be challenged, men, to ask yourself whether you are being a hunter for God, for his kingdom, or if you are being hunted by the evil one. So kind of a deep theme there. But I also imagine it'll be a great time with just good food and throwing around football and fire.

I don't know. Am I right, men? Sounds about right. Oh, right. Very good. So you can also email Dave Winsett with any questions as well. But go ahead and get registered by September 13th. Okay. Continuing on with the men. So there is a small group for men that is open and welcoming anyone interested. They meet on the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month. And they meet here actually at Canvas in the youth room. And what they'll be doing is just watching the chosen series and then having a discussion afterwards. So men, if you are looking to get connected in that sense, then go ahead. Please just either show up or is my friend Ken Sanders in the room today? Is he here? Or maybe, maybe not. But anyways, he leads it up and he actually leads up all of the small groups so he would be the person to get in touch with. But again, just email the church and we'll point you in the right direction for that. So men's small group meeting on second and fourth, watching the chosen and having just good times of fellowship and discussion afterwards. Okay. So speaking of small groups, let's kind of just transition to that for a bit. So I could stand up here for the rest of this time and tell you how I've been blessed by being a part of a small group. But I won't do that.

Instead, could you, if you have ever been part of a small group or attended a small group, whether it's here or another church, could you just raise your hand real high? Real high. Wonderful. And if you are interested, oh, keep them up, keep them up. So if you are interested or you would like to become part of a small group, just look around and the person nearest to you with their hand raised, I would encourage you just to connect with them after church and just start up a conversation. You can put your hands down now and just talk about what that's like. And how they've been blessed by it and just what it's all about. Truly, it is just kind of the next step, the next level of forming relationships and establishing that community other than meeting in the church building on Sundays, which is amazing and awesome. But if you are truly looking to just form that church family, I would highly encourage you to join a small group. I've just been so blessed with fellow brothers and sisters in Christ, just being able to pray and be encouraged and to learn and listen.

And just so we can continue to build each other up as we've been called to do and conform to the image of Jesus. So, hallelujah. Yes. So small groups. That's my plug for that. We host a small group. You know, it's on Sundays at four with childcare. They're throughout the week. So there's probably something that will fit your schedule. And if there's not, then we'll make it happen. We will make it happen. Absolutely. If that's on your heart. Okay. So that's my plug for small groups. Next, let's go ahead and get to the ladies here. So ladies, Flourish, which is our women's ministry, is hosting a women's retreat, and that's coming up in November. November 1st through the 3rd at the Highlands Ranch, which is where we were at last year if you attended. And it's, again, a wonderful time of just worship, fellowship, connection, being outside in nature, just having nice quiet time as well. So November 1st through the 3rd, and you can register for that online.

If you register before July 31st, you get the early bird discount rate. So ladies, I just encourage you to be prayerful about that. And space is limited. So there you go. As far as ways to give to this church, guys, we have been blessed with each of you. So many great gifts, and just however the Lord has called you to contribute that to the church, I just encourage you to be prayerful about that, whether it is giving financially, whether it is giving with your time, with your experience, with childcare, with the cafe, with the outreach. There's just so many ways to give to this church. If you do decide to give financially, you can do so online. You can get connected. I keep saying get connected online, or just talk to anyone here, and we will lead you in the right direction.

So if giving has been on your heart, then we absolutely encourage you to just reach out and do so. Let's see here. Oh, so last but not least, parents, if you have your child in one of our wonderful classrooms, please make sure you have your claim ticket when you pick them up. We just want to make sure that their safety, your safety, is the number one priority. So when you do pick up your child from his or her classroom, just please present your claim ticket to the teacher so that they can make sure it all matches up. All right, guys. Well, again, praise the Lord. We are here. Let us just prepare for worship and a time of the message coming up, and thank you all so much. Thank you, Caroline. Just remember, if you do not pick up your child on time, they will be given a kitten, and they will bring that home with them. So please be prompt with that.

Good morning, Canvas Community Church. If you're comfortable and you want to praise the Lord standing to your feet, please do so. Let's give Him our gratitude this morning. Let's sing our praises to our Heavenly Father. I know who I am, 'cause I know who you are. The cross of salvation was only the start. Now I am chosen, free and forgiven. I have a future, and it's worth living. I wasn't made to be tending a grave. I was called by name, born and raised back to life again. And I was made for more. So why would I beg, obey my shame, when a fountain of grace is running my way? I know I am yours, and I was made for more. I know who I am, 'cause I know who you are. The cross of salvation was only the start.

And now I am chosen, free and free. And I have a future, and it's worth it. I wasn't made to be attending a grave. I was called my name, born and raised back to life again. I was made for more. Why would I beg? I beg my shame where the fountain of grace is running my way. I know I am good if I was made for more. Hallelujah. You called out my name, so I'll sing out your praise. Hallelujah. You buried my past, and I'm not going back. Hallelujah. You called out my name, so I'll sing out your praise. Hallelujah. You buried my past, and I'm not going back. And I was made to be. Send me to the grave. I was called by name. Born and raised back to life again. And I was made for more.

Yes! Why would I make? Or pay my chain when a bouncing of boots is running my way. I know I am yours. And I was made for more. I was made to be. To be in the grave, I was called by name. Born and raised back to life again. I was made for more. So why would I make? Or bend my shame when a fountain of grace is running my way. I know I am yours. And I was made for more. Hallelujah. You called out my name, so I'll sing at your praise. Hallelujah. You buried my past, and I'm not going back. Hallelujah. You called out my name, so I'll sing at your praise. Hallelujah. You buried my past, and I'm not going back. I was made to retending the grave. I was called my name, born and raised back to life again.

And I was made for more. So why would I make a bed in my shame when a fountain of grace is running my way? I was wide and loose. And I was made for more. Scripture reading from 1 Peter 2:11-17. Dear friends, I warn you as temporary residents and foreigners to keep away from worldly desires that wage war against your very souls. Be careful to live properly among your unbelieving neighbors. Then even if they accuse you of doing wrong, they will see your honorable behavior and they will give you honor to God when He judges the world. For the Lord's sake, submit to all human authority, whether the king of head of state or the officials he has appointed. For the king has sent them to punish those who do wrong and to honor those who do right. It is God's will that your honorable lives should silence those ignorant people who make foolish accusations against you. For you are free, yet you are God's slaves. So don't use your freedom as an excuse to do evil. Respect everyone and love the family of believers. Fear God and respect the king.

We live for you. Jesus, the name above every other name. Jesus, the only one who could ever save. Worthy of every breath we could ever breathe. We live for you. Oh, we live for you. Sing holy. Holy, there is no one like you. There is none beside you. Open up my eyes in wonder and show me who you are and fill me with your heart. And lead me in your love to those around me. Oh, Jesus. Jesus, the name above every other name. Jesus, the only one who could ever sing. Worthy of every breath we could ever bring. We live for you. Oh, we live for you. Oh, and holy, there is no one like you. There is none beside you. Open up my eyes in wonder. Show me who you are and fill me with your heart and lead me in your love to those around me.

And I will build my life upon your love. It is a firm foundation. And I will put my trust in you alone. And I will not be shaken. And I will build my life upon your love. It is a firm foundation. And I will put my trust in you alone. And I will not be shaken. Holy, holy. There is no one like you. There is none beside you. Open up my eyes in wonder. And show me who you are. And fill me with your heart. And lead me in your love to those around me. I will build my life upon your love. It is a firm foundation. And I will put my trust in you alone. And I will not be shaken. Who is like the Lord? Who is like the Lord? He is holy. He is holy. He is holy. There is no one

like you. There is none beside you. Open up my eyes in wonder. Show me who you are and fill me with your heart and lead me in your love to those around me. I will. I will build my life upon your love. It is my firm foundation, and I will put my trust in you alone, and we will not be shaken, and I will build my life upon you. It is my firm foundation, and I will put my trust in you alone, and I will not be shaken. Let's pray. Christ is my firm foundation. The rock on which I stand, and everything around me is shaken. I've never been more glad. I put my faith in Jesus, 'cause He's never left me down. He's faithful through generations. So why would He fail now? He won't. He won't. Well, I've still got joy and chaos. I've got peace that makes no sense. So I won't be going under.

I won't strength. I've built my life on Jesus, and He's never let me down. He's faithful in every season. So why would He fail now? He won't. He won't. He won't fail. He won't fail. He won't fail. He won't fail. Christ is my firm foundation. The rock on which I stand. Everything around me is shaken. I've never been for glad. I put my faith in Jesus. He's never left me down. He's faithful through generations. He won't fail. He won't fail. He came in blue, but my house was built on you. I said with you, I'm gonna make it through. He came in blue, but my house was built on you. I said with you, I'm gonna make it through. He came in blue, but my house was built on you. I said with you, I'm gonna make it through.

Cause my heart is strong on you. Yeah, I'm gonna make it through. Cause my house is built on you. Life is my firm foundation. The rock on which I stand, when everything around me is shaken. I put my faith in Jesus. Cause He's never left me down. He's faithful through generations. So why would He fail now? He won't. He won't. He won't fail. He won't. He won't. He won't fail. He won't fail. No, He won't. Thank you. God, thank you that you never fail us. Thank you that you never leave us. God, we love you, and pray that you would raise up our church family, that you would raise up your family and your church in the city of Winchester. You would raise us up to do your work, to tell people how much Jesus loves them.

God, you're so good. I pray that you would give us rest in who we are to you and that you love us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.

Well, good morning, church. Man, I don't know about you, but I needed to sing some of those songs this morning to remind myself of truth that I have forgotten throughout the week, throughout the month, throughout the year. Christ is our firm foundation, the rock on which we stand. I don't know about you, but I'm looking around, and there's a lot of wind, and there's a lot of rain, and there's a lot of difficulty, and there are people in our lives, neighbors, coworkers, friends, who think—this is what the Lord is reminding me of as we worship—there are people in my life who think the solution to their problems, the only hope that they have in this world is two candidates that just had a debate, and I don't know about you, but I don't think any of those are the solution to the problems of our soul.

We know this, those of us who have tasted and seen that the Lord is good, but I understand my neighbors, coworkers—not my coworkers, because I work here, but your coworkers—my neighbors, my friends, people in my life—I understand the fear, the worry, the insecurity, the grasping for something firm to stand on. We have that firm foundation, and God has called us to take it into the world. And that's what this morning's message is all about. I am stoked. Just a little bit of recap. We are in—we've been about eight weeks in a series through the life of Paul. The first eight weeks, we covered the biography of his life. Paul was, at first, he was a persecutor of the church. He was a Jewish Pharisee who thought that Jesus was a fraud, a liar. And so he was killing and imprisoning anybody who tried to profess the name of Jesus. And then he had a radical encounter with Jesus on the road to Damascus. Everything

changed. For the first 13 years of his life, we don't know a lot about what happened other than he was growing in his faith and serving the Lord in his hometown of Tarsus. And he launched his official leadership in Antioch, where Barnabas brought him to Antioch because a bunch of Gentiles were coming into the church. They were receiving the message of hope of Jesus. And what happened is there were a bunch of Gentiles and a bunch of Jews in the room, and they had a lot of different opinions about a lot of different things. They were fighting and arguing and dividing. And Barnabas said, "Paul, he understands what it is to be a Jew. He understands what it is to be a Roman. So I'm going to go get him and he's going to help us." Paul's whole life was leading to this point. God's call on Paul's life was so that he could come to a

place where he understood both the Jews and the Gentiles, and he could help them form unity in the midst of difficult circumstances. God has a call on your life. Your circumstances are not by chance or by accident. He has prepared you for a ministry that he is calling you to. May we all learn to find that and walk in it. So from Antioch, the Holy Spirit appoints Paul and Barnabas to go on three journeys. And they go and plant churches and strengthen churches. And Kent did an incredible job last week of explaining his final journey was a voluntary journey in prison. He essentially intentionally put himself in prison for the sake of the gospel so that he could take the message of Jesus to places that nobody would ever have been able to take the message of Jesus so that he could take it to the emperor. Kent summarized this final journey so well.

His entire life after his encounter with Jesus was all about the mission of God. And that's what our lives should be about as well. All of us who are followers of Jesus in the room. I think we have this understanding in our mind that we've been called to a missional life. We get it. We hear messages like Kent's last week. We're like, yes, missional lifestyle. I want to be about that. I want to do those things. But if you're anything like me, you hear messages like that, you get excited, you get inspired, and then you think, now what? What do I do? How do I live missional life? And so that's what we're going to do today. We're going to look at a passage from Paul talking about how he lives a missional life, his focus, what he did in order to be missional. And I think it should give us some practical input and feedback on how we can live missional lives. Sound good? All right, let's pray. Holy Spirit, we thank you.

That you're the good counselor. That you remind, challenge, speak to your church through your people. God, we are, we have, I have experienced your presence in the room this morning. I feel you working and moving, and I pray that you'd continue to do so as we look at your word this morning. May your Holy Spirit tell each one of us what we need to hear. Inspire us to be obedient. Not just to hear and agree with, but to hear and do. May we become doers of your word and not hearers only. It's in Jesus name I pray. Amen. If you have your Bibles, you want to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. 1 Corinthians chapter 9 is going to be our text for this morning. I'm not sure how COVID-19 treated all of you all. I'm sure we all had different experiences and the ways in which we coped with this global pandemic. But I, for a few months, decided that I was

going to enjoy sitting on the couch and eating Cheetos and watching TV way too much. You know, it was like COVID came right at the right time for me. And I was just like, I'm gonna, this is nice. This is nice. And about six months into the pandemic, I realized that I had been gaining a significant amount of weight. Anybody else put on some COVID weight? You don't have to raise your hand. You don't have to. I'll do it for you. I put on some COVID weight. And I was like, man, I, this is not, this is not healthy or good for me. personally. I knew that something needed to change. I had to make a shift in my patterns and in my behavior so that I could be healthy, so that I could do, just do better. And I needed to make a change, but I struggled for a while because I didn't always have the right motivation. Anybody ever try to do the right thing for the wrong reason? Yeah. Okay. So I, for a while I was trying to do the right thing for the wrong reason.

I was trying to lose weight to look good. Not a good motivation to lose weight. Like, it's not a bad, I guess, but for me, because here's the thing, I had so much weight to lose that I was making sacrifices, changing my lifestyle, doing hard things, and then guess what happened? I still didn't look good. So I'm like, all right, well, this isn't working. I'm going to go back to something else. Wrong motivation, right? And then there's strategy. There's a million different ways to lose weight. Just do me a favor next time you're at Books A Million and go to like the health and diet section, right? There's enough books to like fill this room of strategies for how to lose weight. So finding the right strategy that worked for me that was effective. And then lastly, having a perspective that made my life changes, my lifestyle last. Because again, I don't know about you, but I've had patterns and times where I'm like, oh, I'm crushing this thing. I'm doing it. I'm eating healthy. I'm exercising. And then like six months later, there's no COVID and I'm back on the couch eating Cheetos and

watching TV. No excuse, right? And so my hunch is that all of us have had experiences like this, whether it was weight loss, adding a habit, deleting a bad habit. My hunch is we've all had experiences like this where we know we need to change. We know we need to add something, take something away from our life. But we struggle. Maybe we struggle because we have the wrong motivation for doing it. We're doing it for the wrong reason. We don't have an effective strategy. Or we have both of those things, right? But then the perspective, it's just a temporary perspective, and it's not a long-lasting perspective. Anybody got rid of a habit only to put that habit back on six months later? Am I the only one in the room? Thank you. All right. Yeah. Perspective. A lasting perspective. And my hunch is that this has been a lot of our experiences when it comes to living missionally. Those of us who are followers of Jesus in the room, we hear messages like Kent's last week. We remember the final words of Jesus in the Great Commission, go and make disciples of all

nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. We know what we're supposed to do. We know what we're called to do. We want to do it. But oftentimes, we have a wrong motivation, a bad strategy, or a perspective that doesn't last. Anybody had that experience when it comes to sharing the message of Jesus with others? Or is it just me? Okay, cool. It's just me. So I will preach. It's a roughly 35-minute sermon to myself. You guys can watch, and it'll be a great experience. So what I want to do today in Paul's letter to the 1 Corinthians, I believe he lays out for us his motivation, his strategy, and his perspective on living missionally. And just so we're all on the same page really quickly, let me define what I mean by missional living. Missional living is demonstrating and declaring the gospel to those around us in meaningful ways.

The hope of Jesus in our lives to those around us in meaningful ways. This is what Paul's life and ministry was all about. And in this short passage in 1 Corinthians, he's going to give us some insight into how he went about doing that. What was his motivation for doing it? What was his strategy for doing it? And what was his perspective that allowed him to do it his entire life walking with Jesus faithfully? I think we can learn something from that and put some of those things into practice. Sound good? All right. 1 Corinthians chapter 9, starting in verse 19. We're going to start with Paul's motivation. What was Paul's motivation for living a missional life? And if you're a writer in your Bible, I'd love for you to look for the words win or save. And if you want to highlight them, underline them, circle them, whatever, we're going to come back to them in a little bit. Paul says, "Although I am free from all and not anyone's slave, I have made myself a slave to

everyone in order to win more people. To the Jews, I became like a Jew to win Jews. To those under the law, like one under the law, though I myself am not under the law, to win those under the law. To those who are without the law, like one without the law, though I am not myself without God's law, but under the law of Christ, why do I do all of this to win those without the law? To the weak, I became weak in order to win the weak. I have become all things to all people, so that I might by every possible means, do we hear the desperation in his voice? I will do anything it takes, anything necessary, so that I might by some means, every possible means, save some. Now I do all of this because of the gospel, so that I might share in its blessings.

In my opinion, this is the clearest explanation of what missional living looks like in the New Testament, of what missional living should look like for us. Paul's overarching point in this paragraph, and it's simple, it's basic, it's not hard. He chooses to lay down all of his priorities and all of his privileges so that he can better relate to people and win them over with the message of Jesus. Read to you as a citizen of the United States of America. This flies in the face of our individualistic, rights-dominated culture. We are a free country and a free people. We are slaves to no one. We get to do what we want, when we want, how we want, and this culture comes into the American church. We say our lives are totally submitted to the Lord and leader of our life, King Jesus, but yet at the end of the day, we live our lives as if we get to do what we want,

when we want, how we want. And here's the beauty. Well, here's the crazy thing about this. Paul isn't contradicting that. Actually, like in the first half of chapter 9 that we don't have time to read, Paul is building an argument of all of his privileges, of all of the things that he deserves and should get. He explains over and over and over again to the Corinthians, "I am a leader in the church. This is my rights. These are my privileges," and yet when he gets to the point of his argument, he says, "I lay all of that down." As American Christians, it's not that we're not free people. It's not that we don't have the freedom to do whatever we want, whenever we want, however we want. It's that because Jesus is the new Lord and leader of our lives, because we are living for a new kingdom, we voluntarily choose to lay down our rights and our privileges and our freedoms in order to prioritize relationships with people.

This is countercultural. It's easy to say but hard to do, which is why the motivation matters so much. Paul isn't saying this is an easy thing to do. I think we learned from out the biography of his life that doing this led to a lot of difficult and challenging things in his life. He's not saying it's easy, but he's saying it's worth it. Why is Paul, who is an influential leader in the church and a rare Roman citizen, so he's got like double leadership status. He has all of the rights and privileges to say like, "I'm important. I'm a big deal." Why does that person make himself voluntarily a slave? Why does he give up his privileges? What's the motivation behind such a sacrificial lifestyle? Well, in this short paragraph, he says six times that the reason he does this is so that he can win or save people.

Paul's motivation was for the lostness, his burden for lost, struggling people. If his whole point to do all of this was so that he might win or save some, that begs the question, "What is he winning them to, or what is he saving them from? Why is he so motivated to win people? What is he winning them from? What are they lost in, and what is he saving them to? What do they need salvation from?" We could spend an entire sermon series answering those two questions, but I'm just going to give you two quick images that Paul likes to use to answer these questions. The first is Paul is winning or saving them from death to life. He believes this in his core. He believes that those who have not yet come to a saving faith and knowledge and understanding of the gospel of Jesus, the kingdom of God, that the Son of God came, lived a perfect life, died on the cross, and rose again, demonstrating that there is a new way to live, a new power, a new priority.

He believes that if you have not come to that knowledge, that understanding that you are ultimately living a life that will lead to your destruction. It's what Jesus says. It's the wide road that leads to the destruction of many. Paul says this in Romans 5:21, "So just as sin ruled over all people and brought them to death." Notice this isn't condemning one group of people over another group of people. All people are under the curse of sin that will ultimately bring us to death. But now, because of Jesus, God's wonderful grace rules instead, giving us right standing with God and resulting in eternal life through our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul believes that all creation is subject to death and separated from God. But through the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus, all of us have a free invitation to receive life.

This is what motivates Paul. This is why he's willing to make so many hard sacrifices, to do so many difficult things, because he believes this to his core. He knows that when he was on the road to Damascus, he was a dead man walking. He was living for things that didn't matter, that were going to pass away. And he knows that the moment he encountered Jesus, he was brought from death to life, and he wants other people to experience the same thing. Do we, Christian, do we remember what our life was like before Jesus? Do we believe that our neighbors, coworkers, friends, and enemies are living a life subject to sin and death? Paul is willing to lay down his earthly priorities and privileges to help hurting people who are under the curse of sin and death find eternal hope and healing in Jesus.

Not only does he believe he's bringing them from death to life, but he also talks about slavery to freedom. Romans 6:16-18, he says, "Don't you realize that you become the slave of whatever you choose to obey? You can be a slave to sin, which leads to death, or you can choose to obey God, which leads to righteous living. Thank God, once you were slaves to sin, but now you wholeheartedly obey this teaching we have given you. Now you are free from slavery to sin, and you have become slaves to righteous living." Paul knows that people who don't yet know about Jesus are living in bondage to their own desires. He knows that we all are tempted to live in bondage to our own desires, to chase after, grasping at the wind, trying to fulfill this deep longing in our souls that nothing except for a relationship with the Creator

that the Creator of the universe can satisfy. All of us are born in bondage to finding something that will satisfy our souls, and he knows, he's convinced that nothing but Jesus will do it. And so he's willing to lay down his life and his privileges to help other people see this. Paul is convinced that the more people he wins to Christ, they will experience the hope, they will be set free from the pursuit of personal fulfillment, and will learn obedience to Christ. This is how the kingdom of God gets built on earth as it is in heaven. The more people that understand this message, that lay down their rights and their privileges in order to pursue loving God with their heart, soul, mind, and strength, and loving their neighbor as their selves. This is how we will see God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. And if you don't

know much about God's kingdom, the picture, the image in the Bible is no more tears, mourning, or pain. The lion lays down with the lamb. There is peace. There is shalom. And we can begin to see this on earth as it is in heaven, as more and more of us submit our lives to the teachings of Jesus, as more and more of us lay down our rights and our privileges to share this message of hope with those around us. Paul is convinced that these sacrifices are worth it because he believes that he is helping people go from death to life and from slavery to freedom. Later in Romans chapter 9, he gives us another verse that lets us see his heart, his motivation for lost people. Specifically, this passage is about his Jewish brothers and sisters.

He says, "My heart is filled with bitter sorrow and unending grief for my people, my Jewish brothers and sisters." He says, "I would be willing to be forever cursed, cut off from Christ if that would save them." Paul knew the Old Testament Scriptures. He knew God's love, his burden, his passion for the people of the nation of Israel, for the Jewish people. He knew that God initiated a relationship with them, that he sent them the Messiah that they've been waiting for, and he sees them rejecting it over and over and over again. He was one of those that was rejecting it, and he so desperately loves, genuinely loves these people who are missing God's purpose for their life, that he says, "I would rather myself be cut off from Christ if it meant that others could come into a relationship with him."

Incredible. I can't speak for all of us in the room, but I know this has been a big reason that I have struggled to live missionally. I've lost my burden for the people in my life who aren't fully submitted to Jesus. My love for them has become muted and self-serving. My love for them looks nothing like I would be willing to be cut off from Jesus for them. May we regain a burden and a genuine love for people who have not yet fully submitted their lives to Jesus. Missional living that lasts starts with a genuine love and burden for the lostness of those around us. Genuine love, not a just so that they can agree with me and come to my side. Like, no, love them where they are for who they are. Genuinely. With no

ulterior motivation other than they are a image bearer of God created by God to be loved. Do we love people like this? Are we willing to lay down our lives and our privileges to serve people like this? This is Paul's motivation for missional living. A genuine burden and love for all people, all people. Secondly, let's look at his strategy. We're going to read the same paragraph again, and this time I'd love for you to look for the word, the phrase "like." Like. This gives us insight into his strategy. He says, "Although, again, I am free from all and not anyone's slave, I have made myself a slave to everyone in order to win more people. To the Jews, I became like a Jew." To win the Jews. To those under the law, like one under the law, though I myself am not under the law. To win those under the law.

To those who are without the law, like one without the law. Though I am not without God's law, but under the law of Christ. To win those without the law. To the weak, I became like the weak in order to win the weak. I have become all things to all people, so that I might by every possible means save some. I do all this because of the gospel, so that I might share in its blessings. Second thing Paul helps us see here is his strategy for missional living. The main thrust, the main context, well, the main thrust of this passage is his strategy for how he went about missional living. And to be honest, it's a preacher's nightmare. Because it's not hard to understand at all. It's just really, really hard to obey. So, I like to talk about things that are hard to understand because it gives me, like, time to kill.

Like, hey, let me read this tough passage and explain to you what it means and give you some cultural context. This passage is pretty simple. It's just hard to obey. Paul says, "I become a slave to everyone. I lay down my rights and my privileges in order to invest in relationship with people. I sacrifice my freedoms, my preferences." Listen to this. This is where it's going to really, we're going to get, it's going to get hard. Ready? I lay down my desire to win an argument in order to build bridges that help people know and follow Jesus as the Lord and leader of their life. See, the context, the broader context of this passage is an argument the Corinthians are having over whether or not they should eat meat that has been sacrificed to idols.

And different groups have brought about with different opinions and different answers to those questions. And guess what they're doing? They're fighting. They're dividing. And they all think they're better than the other group. They all think their answer is right and the other group's wrong. They're God's gift to creation and the other group is distorting the gospel and ruining the church. And I know this doesn't sound anything like the state of the current American church. We all get along. Right? No. This is a similar position as us. We've become divided over secondary issues, which has caused us to lose sight of our external mission and turn towards internal fights. Which is causing many people in the church to leave the church altogether. And it is keeping many people outside of the church from ever considering our message.

The American church is struggling with a similar perspective as the Corinthians. We are getting in fights with one another and losing sight of our mission. And what's happening is the same thing that happened in Corinth. People in Corinth were walking away from the church because they are like, "I don't need this mess in my life." See, there is a mass exodus in the American church today. Books have been written about it. Studies have been done about it. And there is plenty of reasons that we could point to and blame. But at the end of the day, I think one major factor that many people are leaving the American church is because the American church has lost sight of our mission. We've lost sight of the people that God has called us to. We've turned inward and we've become obsessed with winning arguments.

And people are leaving the church and others outside the church are looking in. We're supposed to be the hope of the world. And we're fighting and bickering about stupid things. And they're like, "Look, I got enough drama in my life. I don't need church drama."

Paul says, "I lay it all down." Here's the thing, in chapter 8, chapter 8 is all about Paul explaining why he has the right answer to the question about meat sacrificed to idols. He's like, "I know the answer to the question. I'm an apostle. I've got it all figured out." But he says, "I don't care about winning an argument. I care about the people that are right in front of me." And so I'm not going to try and convince them that I am right about this secondary issue over and above my relationship with them. I'm going to lay down my desire to be right in an argument so that I can relate to a person in front of me. This is Paul's strategy for missional living. I lay down my freedoms and my preferences and my desires to win an argument so that I can love people, genuinely love people.

Multiple categories of people in this passage, and Paul's approach to addressing every category of person, is to voluntarily lay down his preferences and his desires to be on the winning side of an argument in order to build relationships with them. The good news of the kingdom of God has come. Freedom from sin and the hope of eternal life is available to all who will receive it. That is the thing that matters most to Paul, and he's willing to lay down all other opinions and preferences and desires so that he can engage people with the hope of Jesus.

The most common form of slave in this context, this culture, was bondservant. Bondservants voluntarily became slaves. So Paul has this in mind. It's not that I have to become a slave. I am voluntarily choosing to become a slave to these people because they matter to me and they matter to God. Paul regularly practiced what I heard one pastor call, I love this term, he calls it cultural agility. Right? Cultural agility. I know how to live. I know how to get into people's world. I'm willing to lay down my preferences and my culture so that I can understand where people are coming from, so that I can relate to them better, so that I can love them better. Paul sat down at every table in the lunchroom. He sought to learn their stories. He wanted to know their culture and their experience and their opinions.

And he did all of this because he was confident, and so am I, that no matter what pain or struggle or challenge they are facing, Jesus is the solution. But here's the thing. We try and impose our problems on other people and offer the Jesus that is our solution to people without ever understanding their problems or their experience or their difficulty or their culture. The American church, we've... That's for next week. I'll save that for next week. Okay. Here's the beautiful thing. I love this. Paul was not the first, nor was he the best to live this approach out. Anybody who grew up in Sunday School care to offer an answer? Wow. Sunday School answer? Jesus! This is what the incarnation is all about. Jesus took on the form of humanity in order to intimately understand the difficulty of the human experience. He made himself a slave to us. He

experienced temptation and trial in every way that we did so that he could show us a better way to live. Philippians 2. This is Paul talking about the attitude of Jesus. You must have the same attitude that Christ Jesus had, though he was God. Jesus had all of the rights and privileges and priorities. He had all of the reason to say, "I'm going to stay up in heaven because I am the creator of the universe." The universe is sustained by me. And instead, he gave up his divine privileges and he took the humble position of a slave. He was born a human being when he appeared in human form. He humbled himself in obedience to God and died a criminal's death on the cross. Therefore, God elevated him to the place of highest honor and gave him the name that is above every name so that every knee should bow in heaven and

on earth and under the earth and every tongue declare that Jesus Christ is Lord. Paul was not some new revolutionary person. He was just doing the thing that Jesus did to him. Jesus came, laid down all of his rights and his privileges in order to engage us with the message of hope, in order to show us a better way to live. And Paul, following the example of Jesus, does the same thing to others, and we, called Christians, little Christ, followers of Jesus, should intentionally seek to do the same thing. I'm going to press on some practical things for a minute. I see many Christians on social media who are much more concerned with their opinions being heard than they are at building bridges with their neighbors that they disagree with. Are we losing an opportunity to have a relationship with our neighbor, our

coworker, our friend, or our enemy? Are we losing opportunities to become like people who are struggling because we're so concerned with winning an argument or getting our opinion heard? Do you have the freedom to share your opinion on Facebook, Christian? Yes. You have the freedom. Are you worth cashing in that opinion that may or may not alienate you from people who are far from Jesus? Is it more important for you that your opinion is heard or that you have an opportunity to build a relationship with somebody who's far from God? Think about what we post. Think about the tone in which we talk about things. Have some awareness of the ways in which you are sharing your opinions. I'm not saying, Paul doesn't say he forgets about truth. He's under the law of Christ at all times, which is to love the Lord your God with all of your

heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. He's not compromising on the gospel, but he's saying all of our cultural ideas and ideologies and experiences, who we vote for and why. He's saying, we've elevated that to the level of the gospel, and it's causing people to disregard everything that we have to say, and the gospel is too important for that. Many of us, we've elevated our cultural preferences and political ideologies to the level of the gospel, and we're losing opportunity to share Jesus with those who disagree with us because we are unkind and convinced we are right. So many of us, myself included, would much rather spend our time our energy and our finances investing in things that make our earthly lives more comfortable than we would laying down these things to build bridges with our

neighbors, our co-workers, our friends, and our enemies who need the hope and healing of Jesus. The most effective strategy we can have for missional living is a willingness to lay down our preferences in order to prioritize relationship with people. Church, if we can get better at this, if we can get better at genuinely loving people, having a deep burden and a desire for them, not just so that we can win them over with the gospel, but genuinely seeing them for where they're at, understanding their experiences, because here's the reality: no matter what culture or experience they come from, this is why the gospel is still alive today in America in 2024. It was a message started by a couple of Jesus, a couple of homeless Jewish people 2,000 years ago, and it's still alive today

because the hope of Jesus is the answer to every cultural problem, every ideological struggle. Jesus is the answer, and so we don't have to try and make them like us. We can understand what their problems are, what their struggles are, and offer Jesus as the solution. And in order for them to follow Jesus, they don't have to become exactly like us. We're going to talk about that more next week, but let's reach them where they're at. Most effective strategy for missional living is a willingness to lay down our preferences to prioritize relationships. I got a picture of a buddy of mine I think is a great example of how this is lived out. This is my friend in the middle, Josh Walton, with the hat and the goofy smile. Love Josh. Josh grew up in a missionary home, came to the

States for college, graduated single guy, had money, could pretty much decide to go and live and do whatever he wanted to do. He came to our church in Pennsylvania, and there was a low-income housing high-rise in the middle of our city. And Josh wanted to reach the people in that high-rise with the message of Jesus. And so he went out to the suburbs and bought a really nice house with an indoor pool. Josh moved into the high-rise, not because he had to, not because he needed to. He could have lived anywhere he wanted to live, but he had a burden for these people. And because he was a missionary kid, he knew that people were never going to listen to the solutions that he had for their problems until he sat down and listened to their problems. And so he lived years in this high-rise apartment

just building relationships with people who were hurting, who were broken. There were prostitutes and drug addicts and all across the spectrum of problems. And Josh didn't come in saying, "I'm better than you. Let me tell you how to fix your problems." He just said, "Tell me about your problems. Tell me about your struggles. How can I help? How can I serve? How can I love?" I love Josh's story because it demonstrates a radical obedience to Jesus, a willingness to voluntarily give up his personal preferences in order to build relationships with people who need Jesus. And maybe, maybe God is calling some of us to radical changes in the way we spend our time, our energy, and our resources. That's up to the Holy Spirit. You and the Holy Spirit. Or maybe God is simply calling you to become less obsessed with winning a cultural debate and more obsessed with actively and intentionally

loving people who disagree with you. A couple of application questions for this section. Who is a specific person or group of people that you can begin to pray for and develop a missional life towards? Who do you have a burden for? Who do you have a genuine love for? Who can you begin to pray for and seek to sit down at their lunch table and just get to know them? Understand the struggles that they have. What preferences or passionate opinions are negatively impacting your ability to form meaningful relationships with people who need to hear about Jesus? What ideas and opinions are you so passionate about, that you get angry about, that you are unwilling to listen to anybody who disagrees with you about?

And is it possible that you need to lay down your opinion about that thing so that you can love the person next to you? What are some changes you can begin to make with how you spend your time and your money that will better allow you to build relationships with people who are far from God? All right. We got to go. Last thing, perspective. When Marissa comes up to the piano before I asked her to, I know that I'm going too long, so thank you. All right. Next paragraph. Paul gives the illustration that I think helps us understand his perspective that was able to sustain him for 30 years of sacrificing his life over and over again for the sake of the gospel. He says, "Don't you know that runners in a stadium, they all race, but only one receives the prize. Therefore, run in such a way to win the prize.

Now, everyone who competes exercises self-control in everything." Listen to this. This is devastating. They do it to receive a perishable crown. But we, an imperishable crown. So I do not run like one who runs aimlessly or box like one beating the air. Instead, I discipline my body and I bring it under strict control so that after preaching to others, I myself will not be disqualified. Paul gives an illustration here that is very culturally appropriate to the Corinthians. The Corinthians hosted the Isthmian Games every two years, which rivaled the Olympics. The Corinthians were used to, had relationships with, exposed to athletes that changed everything about the way they lived their life so that they might have an opportunity, a chance to win a crown made of leaves that was going to fall apart and end in the trash can.

And Paul says, "We've seen these people, these athletes, they discipline themselves. They sacrifice everything about their lives so that they might win this one crown that's going away." His point is, Christian, follower of Jesus, how much more of an honor should it be for us to self-discipline ourselves, to lay down our lives intentionally, because the race that we are running is not for a temporary prize. It's not for a prize that's going to go away or end up in a landfill somewhere someday. The prize that we are running for is eternal, incorruptible, and will not fade away. Paul says if athletes are willing to change their diet, the time they wake up, the time they go to bed, if they're willing to change everything they have for the opportunity to win a prize, how much more should we alter the way that we live our lives, structure our schedules, our budgets,

our posts on Facebook, everything about our lives should be laid down, disciplined in order to fulfill the law of Christ, to love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. Such a timely illustration with the Olympics coming up, right? I don't know if you guys' feet are filled with Michael Phelps' videos this week, but mine were. Dude was an animal, right? I watched the video. He said, "For five straight years, he did not miss a single day of training." Christmas? Nope. Easter? Nope. Thanksgiving? Nope. Vacation? What vacation? Michael Phelps didn't go on vacation. Dude ate 12,000 calories a day. All, all that hard work paid off in some really incredible ways. But one day, Michael Phelps will die and his Olympic medals will fall away and end up in a landfill somewhere.

Rory is not going to have any clue who Michael Phelps is. I'm going to have to tell him. And then maybe he might remember enough to tell his kids. But after that, gone from the history books. Paul says what we have to live for doesn't fade away. It's imperishable. Imagine 10,000 years from now when our time in God's kingdom is just at its infancy. You get to interact with somebody who is in the kingdom of God. Partly because of a sacrifice you made. A preference you laid down, an argument you decided not to engage in. My guess is that you aren't going to be thinking about all the extra binge watching, doom scrolling, or moments of pride after a witty, unkind comeback you made on social media. My guess is it will be one of the highest honors of your life that God counted you a worthy messenger of His good news.

This is the perspective that allowed Paul to gladly and voluntarily lay down his earthly preferences and privileges in order to live on mission. To build bridges with people who disagree with him out of a genuine love for them. Here's the thing about each one of these groups: Jews, Greeks, weak, without the law, all of them annoyed Paul for one reason or another. All of them were difficult to be in relationship with for one reason or another. People around us are going to be difficult. They're going to be hard. They're going to get under our skin. We're not going to see things the way that they see things. We're not going to always understand their perspective. And yet we do so over and over again intentionally to demonstrate love for them, the same love that we received from Jesus.

This is the perspective that allowed Paul to do this for 30 years plus. And I think if we could begin to embrace this perspective, that the sacrifice is worth the reward. We're running a race for an imperishable crown. I think if we get that perspective in our mind, it could cause us to have more longevity when it comes to living missionally. This message has been really challenging for me. I enjoy my freedoms. And I don't know if you guys know this about me or not, but I love to win arguments. It's so fun.

And yet I am compelled by this example of Paul, which is ultimately just a shadow of the example of Jesus. I'm compelled that it's a much better lifestyle to lay down my rights and privileges, to build genuine relationships with those around me for the sake of the gospel. It's what Jesus did everywhere he went. It's the reason you and I are here today. Because faithful and sacrificial believers came to believe that sacrificing their freedoms and their preferences was more important. So that you and I might be here one day. So, Christian, in the room, this is your invitation. To participate in the mission of God by voluntarily laying down your life to invest it in others. Not only is it an invitation, but it's what you were made for. All other pursuits will fall short of this. All other pursuits will lead you into slavery.

So if we're going to be slaves, we might as well be slaves to the Creator of the universe who made us and offers us abundant life. And if you're in here and you're not sure where you're at with Jesus, you're like, "Man, this was heavy. You guys are like, intense." I, I truly believe that Jesus is the Son of God who came to take away the sins of the world, the people back into the intimate father-child relationship that you know somewhere deep in your soul you were created for. I believe it so much I've given my life to proclaim it to others. I want to get better at doing it every day. And I hope if you get anything from this message, you get that God loves you so much that He willingly laid down His rights and His privileges

to bring you back into a relationship with Himself, not because He had to, but because He chose to. He wants a relationship with you. He calls us as His followers to do the same, and I am sorry for the ways in which we have fallen short of that calling. I'm sorry for the ways in which we've been more interested in winning arguments online than getting to know you, and seeking to understand your perspective, and to share the hope that we have received. If you're interested in discussing that further, there's going to be some volunteers and myself here at the prayer tent. Whether you want to talk about that or you just need prayer, we'd love for you to come up after service. So, as we wrap up this morning, I can give you just two to three minutes of reflection.

If you're in here and you're a follower of Jesus, I'd love for you to reflect on this question: What earthly priorities, privileges, and petty arguments might God be inviting you to lay down in order to pursue meaningful relationships with people who are far from God?

Oh man, I didn't know how to slide for that. Sweet. If you're in here and you're not yet a follower of Jesus, I'd love for you to consider the implications for your life. If the Jesus of the Bible really is who He said He is, if He's the Son of God who laid down all of His divine privileges so that you can be in a right relationship with God, what does that mean for the trajectory of your life? I'll give you just two or three minutes, and then I will come back up and dismiss us here in a minute. I'll give you just a moment. I'll give you just a moment. Thank you. You're welcome. I'm ready. I'm ready. I'm ready.

I will build my life upon your love. It is a firm foundation. I will put my trust in you. I will trust in you alone, and I will not be shaken, and I will build my life upon your love. It is a firm foundation. I will put my trust in you alone, and I will not be shaken. Holy, there is no one like you. There is none beside you. Open up our eyes. Rise in wonder and show me who you are and fill me with your heart and lead me in your love to those around me. Amen. Sorry, Doc. I'm a recovering legalist, and I feel as if I might have left a little bit too much guilt or burden on you. So just as we end, I just want to remind us that this is a beautiful invitation to life. And if you haven't been doing it well, Jesus gave his life to offer you freedom and forgiveness. Do not carry shame out of this room.

A new invitation to lay down your rights and your privileges to follow Jesus better. And I think I preached so hard at myself because I'm not the best at forgiving myself for the ways in which I failed. And so may we receive the forgiveness of Jesus over us today and think about this beautiful invitation to live for something so much more important. So I'd love for you to stand. I'm going to read a prayer over us as we are dismissed. It's a prayer from the passage we read in 1 Peter 2 adapted from the message translation. It goes something like this, "Father, may we be the ones chosen by God, chosen for the high calling of priestly work, chosen to be a holy people, God's instruments to do His work and speak out for Him to tell others of the night and day difference He made for us, from nothing to something, from rejected to accepted, from dead to alive, from slave to free. Friends, this world is not our home, so may we not make ourselves cozy in it. May we not indulge our ego at the expense of our soul. May we live exemplary lives in our neighborhoods,

so that our actions will refute their prejudices. May they be won over to God's side and be there to join in the celebration when He arrives. Amen. You're dismissed. Love to see you at the prayer tent.

Worthy, worthy, holy, holy, holy, holy, and worthy. Worthy, worthy, worthy. Lord, we live for you. We live for you. We live for you. We live for you. We live for you. You are all alone. We live for you. We live for you. We live for you. We live for you. We live for you.
