FASTING: To Amplify Our Prayers
2024-03-04
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiXYz6EZnFY

To fast is to hunger for more of God. We fast to offer our whole selves, including our whole body, to God.

To grow in holiness. To amplify our prayers. And to stand with the poor. Fasting is one of the most essential and powerful of all the practices of Jesus. It's an ancient discipline whose time has come. It's an ancient discipline whose time has come. It's an ancient discipline whose time has come.

Wow. Wow. Thank you, Ryan and Canvas Church, for inviting me to come and join you all this morning. I do want to also thank Ryan for giving me the hardest one of these four sermons on fasting. Yeah, it's really sweet and kind. You're such a gentle pastor. For some of you who are looking up here and wondering who I am, most of you probably know me. But for those of you who don't, my name is Nick Payne. I serve here locally at Crossroads Community Church. Also with our network of churches, I'm our youth director. And I've just been fortunate enough to be invited back. Now, this is my third time, man. That's, you know, I haven't offended you yet. So hopefully today, we can, you know, I can continue in my not being offensive. But I am excited to get to join in on this series.

I've been following this, practicing the way since before it was really being brought forth. And so I was excited to hear that you guys here at Canvas, we're going to slowly incorporate some of this into your sermon series and practices in your small groups. And so very encouraged by your heart here and your willingness to just do what you can to become like Jesus. That's really our goal. Our goal in life as Christians is to become like Christ. It's not to become like me, even though Paul says, follow me as I follow Christ. Paul wasn't inviting them to become like him. He says, follow me as I follow Christ, because Paul was following Jesus. He was inviting them to become like Jesus because he believed that he was becoming like Jesus. And so that's really important, especially when we bring into a topic like fasting,

which is not a cool, fun thing to preach on. And it's even less fun to actually do. Amen. If you've ever tried to Lent, like we're currently in, is an incredible, is an intentional fasting period that leading up to Passover, like you're going to have a Seder meal sort of here coming up soon. So over the 40 days leading up to Easter resurrection Sunday, whichever you prefer to call it, this is a beautiful time in the body of Christ where globally the church is doing something together at one moment for a specific reason. There is something powerful when the whole body of Christ comes together. However, we should not view or practice this as a religious, a religious ritual or obligatory deed. Help me out. That if we don't practice this, we're in some way bad Christians or dishonoring God.

Don't think like that. The battle, I mean, actually, hold on. There's examples of people fasting in times throughout history when national days of prayer have been called. One specifically is the battle of Dunkirk, if you're familiar with it, during World War II, when Winston Churchill called for a day of fasting and prayer because 300,000 British troops were stranded on a beach and the German soldiers were in, were in, uh, coming up a pun and cornering them between the ocean and land. Oddly enough, though, this is weird that the Germans stopped advancing and gave the British time to try to figure out what to do. We can debate on whether or not it was a bad move by the German army or a chance of a foggy morning, which provided the cover for the boats to arrive through a tough journey over the English

channel to rescue these stranded soldiers. But the fact remains that after a national day of prayer was called, these soldiers were rescued. This sounds like a choose your own adventure book. You can choose to believe that just by happenstance, a foggy morning happened. The German soldiers stopped and fishing boats arrived to rescue 300,000 soldiers. That's a lot of boats. I don't know if any of you go down to, uh, the Chesapeake to do any type of, you know, a charter boat fishing, but those boats can only hold so many people. And those are big boats compared to who knows the size of the boats really that showed up to rescue all these soldiers. I'm going to choose to not believe that that was happenstance. Fasting is one practice though, that I can conveniently forget. But I'm reminded of the importance of it when it's being, when I'm practicing.

In my early zealousness for Christ, in my walk with him, I fasted weekly. But I found myself becoming extremely prideful in how I was fasting. And in my mind, I thought if I fasted once a week, that means I'm going to fast 52 days this year. Man, I'm doing a good job. Man was my motive on why I was fasting exposed. My desire for the denial of my flesh was met because that was the importance of what I was trying to do. However, my mind derailed what the true goal really was. And that's to become like Christ. So I ask you these questions. Do we have a desired outcome when you're fasting? Is that for God to be heard more clearly to you? Or what's God's response to prayer and fasting? And stories or testimonies like the Dunkirk story that we just heard,

are they God's response to fasting and prayer or just mere coincidence? What we have before us this morning is a few things. First, is what we know for sure is that throughout Scripture, fasting and prayer are found together. It's not always said together, but a lot of the times, especially in the Old Testament, you see Israel fasting and praying. And a lot of the times, it's as a community, not just as an individual. Number two, we can pray without fasting, but you cannot fast without praying. I don't know if any of you have ever done an extended fast over more than a couple of days, but you definitely need the Spirit of the Lord to continue, for you to continue to be connected to Him, because it is very tough. You feel weak, you feel tired, but guess what?

What does the Spirit of the Lord do? He really does strengthen you up. Then you're like, man, I can keep going forward. I don't need to eat today. Then today's message, fasting to amplify your prayers, will be boiled down into a core discipline in following Christ. That's the hearing God. But then we're going to throw in something spicy at the end. Now this is what, now let's get into, this is the third of the four reasons why we fast. Let's do a brief recap. So week one, you reviewed or you discussed in your small groups and here, hopefully on Sunday, I didn't listen to the whole message, but I listened to part of it, is offering ourselves to Jesus was covered. Week two was fasting for holiness. Michelle did a great job. Now this week is fasting to amplify your prayers.

Now before you check out or write questions to Pastor Ryan to try to clarify a few things. First, prayer can be distilled into two categories. And I know that you've already discussed that in the first four week series, but it's really prayer is boiled down or distilled into two things. That's listening to God and God speaking to you. Two things. I know that that's an oversimplification, but for people like me, I really do need it simple, even though I like to study complex things. The point in the complex is to make it simple, because sometimes our lives are deeply complex, but yet ever so simple. Prayer is a bit of an umbrella term that essentially covers our methods or ways of communing with God, that is by listening and speaking. Fasting is deeply powerful, and it amplifies our prayers both for us hearing and for God speaking.

Let's put it this way. Here's a quote from Reverend Sam Rogers. Prayer is not being modified by my fasting. I am being modified by my fasting. Fasting is a way to hear God and be heard by God. Very wise words. Number one, let's jump into today's sermon. To hear God. Let's everybody turn to Acts chapter 13, one through three, and we're going to read this portion of Scripture and read a fascinating story of some of the early disciples along the way. I'm going to be reading from the NASB, and so you can follow along there, or you can follow along by reading on the screen. They say this, Now there were at Antioch in the church that was their prophets and teachers, Barnabas and Simeon, who was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene and Manine,

who had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch and Saul. While they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, set them apart for me, Barnabas and Saul, to do the work of the church, or for do the work which I've called them. Then, when they had fasted and prayed, they laid their hands on them, and they sent them away. Notice how clear God was when they were ministering and fasting. What would we associate that word ministering to? What were we doing just a few minutes ago when we were singing that last song? We weren't singing about ourselves in that song. You weren't calling yourself a wretched sinner in that song, and although that might be true for those of us who might not be following Christ. But what were we doing in that last song?

We were declaring, How great are you, Lord? We were praying and saying words of affirmation to God, not to ourselves, not to you, and most of you are probably great people. But you're not God. I'm sorry. But we were declaring to Him who He is. And through that ministering and fasting, meaning that we're not eating and declaring who great God is, even though we bless our food and I love a good meal, clearly. But while they were abstaining from eating and ministering to the Lord, Holy Spirit spoke very clearly. Scott McKnight says this in his Second Testament translation. He says, They're performing a religious service to the Lord and fasting. Another word for this is worship. They were worshiping and fasting. Then they heard the Lord speak clearly. But I thought today's is why fasting amplifies our prayers.

Why are we pointing this out? Because worship, I don't want to say it's a form of prayer, but it kind of is. Because you're communing with God. We are speaking to the Lord. We are declaring who He is. Yes, there's times when we fast because, or we're praying because we have a need that needs to be met, whether it's a family member that's hurt or, you know, dealing with an addiction. We're praying for the Lord to bring them along or we have a dire need at the church that, you know, we need something happens and we're praying to the Lord for this. You're communing with God. So as they were worshiping to the Lord and fasting, Holy Spirit spoke. Now I do, the teacher in me needs to find some examples of fasting and prayer.

So let's turn to Daniel chapter 10, very familiar portion of Scripture. Daniel in chapter 10 says this, In those days, I, Daniel had been mourning for three weeks. I did not eat any tasty food, nor meat or wine into my mouth, nor did I use any ointment at all until the entire three weeks were completed. Daniel fasted for three weeks. And I know that now in our modern Western church, we have moved into, I don't know if you guys do this here, but it's very common that we do a Daniel fast where you don't eat any tasty food. So it's okay to eat raw vegetables. That's fine. That's fine. I'm not saying raw vegetables aren't tasty, but come on, if there's not salt and pepper on it or butter, come on, dude. He didn't eat anything for three weeks.

And then at the end of that three weeks, the Lord answered his prayers. One more example. That's going to be in Nehemiah chapter four, chapter one, verse four through 11. Now I was going to paraphrase this, but I'm just going to read some of it. When that, when I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days. And I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven. Nehemiah needed to fast and pray before God because of something in very important that was happening for him. He needed attentive ears and eyes to be able to see and hear what the Lord was doing. and what the Lord was speaking. Why did he need to have attentive ears? Because sometimes maybe our flesh gets in the way, perhaps. I mean, I know sometimes after I eat a big meal,

I can get a little, little woozy, eat too much cheese and your head feels weird. I don't know if that's happened to you, but dairy can do that to me sometimes. Why do we see this in Scripture? But also why is it rare that we see this lived out in our modern culture? We don't have time to dissect this fully, but we should, but we should choose not to find where to place blame or fault, but rather allow the Scriptures to speak for themselves and not us impose our personal and sometimes even frail theological or ideological beliefs on the Scriptures so that we can learn from them and not tell the Scriptures what we want them to say to us. Can we do that? That's hard. Trust me. I've been walking down this road not as long as some of you,

but let the Scriptures speak for themselves and not me impose my frailed thought on top of it. You can think of it like this. In times of prayer and fasting, we are waiting on God and this postures us for hearing God, but let us remember it is not the only way, but a powerful one. Now, this part's going to be a little challenging for me because we want to take a step back and sort of look at our body and how our body responds in fasting. Remember, we're chipping away at false dichotomies between the physical and spiritual. We are whole persons, but what we do with our body affects our soul. In the last session, you covered some of the ways that fasting is good for your physical health, but also good for your mental health.

Peer review studies on fasting have demonstrated that fasting increases your blood flow, that causing you to be more alert and aware and compared to eating, which causes blood flow to go to your digestive system, which is why we're tired and cloudy in our minds after a large Thanksgiving or even Christmas meal. This also increases our neuroplasticity. That's a big word. And I almost pronounced it correctly. The ability for your brain to make new neuro connections. Wow. Nick did it. If any of you really know me, that was tough. It's also proven to decrease our neurotransmitters that signal anxiety and depression and increase those that elevate and calm and give us a sense of well-being. That sounds really important. It's also proven to increase what doctors call interception, which is your ability to accurately notice what's happening inside your body and mind.

Fasting seems very important. It's even been shown in some studies to arrest or even reverse the effects of Alzheimer's. It comes as no surprise that fasting is not an exclusively Christian practice. It's practiced widely around different religions, societies, but the first time it's really mentioned that we can see is in Scripture with Moses fasting on Mount Sinai for 40 days. And what was Moses feeding on? The very presence of Yahweh for 40 days. Now, we think Israel's in the desert. It was probably easy for them to fast because food was hard to come by. I doubt it. The Lord was constantly feeding them even though they were very... they grumbled heavily. And there was a lot of them and God was constantly feeding them, whether it's through manna or quail. Because fasting is a way of honoring

our body and mind to a point of alertness, focus, and perception. Now to repeat, this does not happen overnight. If you are new to fasting and especially if your regular diet is high in sugar or refined in grains, do not just start fasting. Be very cautious in how you walk into the waters because it can hurt your body. And even as I do minister with a lot of youth and young adults, we don't encourage teenagers to do much fasting. And that's not because I was raised Catholic and within the Catholic faith for during Lent, teenagers are not supposed to fast in over 65. You're supposed to be very cautious in what you fast. Because young people are still developing and we don't want to hurt development of their brain. It's very important. Now they could skip a meal here and there,

but I know some of you would probably enjoy that in your wallet and your fridge would. May not drink a gallon of milk in a day. But the point is is that fasting helps us in our body, our mind, and our soul. If you want to practice this and make it regularly a part, I'm not sure how much you've touched on already the rule of life, which is really how you develop your rules in life. And I don't mean rules as in here's a one, two, three rules you have to do. Rule is more of a Latin word that means trellis. Here's a trellis that's built that allows my vine to grow. Does that make sense? So how incorporate fasting into your rule of life, how you develop, how you are following God, how are you allowing the vine,

which is the Lord in you to grow, becoming more like him. It's important for us to understand that fasting is not a way to get a better response to prayer, but rather true fasting means that we are fostering a better, humbler approach to prayer. Again, it's not a religious right that you have to do. It's one that we actually get to do, which is kind of fascinating to think about. It's important for us to not only see but understand how this all puts our body, our mind in an ideal state or posture to hear God's voice. Something to mention really quick though. Fasting creates space in your lives too. You don't, I mean, think about it. How much in a week do you think about food? Where you're going to get food? Husbands, ask your wives.

What you're going to eat that week if you're meal planning, if you get home at the end of the day and you haven't thought about what's for dinner and then you get tired and then you order food if you don't live out deep in the country? You know, how much time are you putting and effort are we putting into food in our daily lives? It's not a bad thing. It's just let's look at it holistically. Fasting creates space to where we don't have to meal plan. Now again, that's not every week but think about it. We put a lot of time and effort into food. Priscilla Shear says this about her fasting practice. I am able to gain perspective on how unbalanced the amount of time, the energy and effort that I've put into my body and spirit.

When we choose to sacrifice a need of the body to place more importance on the need of the spirit, God himself sits up and takes notice. This is her personal journey. The heavens are opened to us in a way that we may not have otherwise been. She offers a key insight here. Not only does fasting put us in an ideal position to listen but it puts God in an ideal position for us for him to speak. I know that might sound strange for some of us but let's continue and I want you to hear me out. Not only is our mind attentive but our heart is humble and hungry. Let us consider what the prophet Joel said in chapter 2 verse 12 and 13. I'm almost there.

Now then the people of Nineveh believed in God and they called a fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest to the least of them. Then the word reached the king of Nineveh. He arose from his throne, laid aside his robe from him, covered himself with sackcloth and sat in the ashes. He instituted, he issued a proclamation and said in Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles do not let man, beast, herd, or flock taste the thing. Do not let them eat or drink water. He was like don't even feed your cattle. That's crazy that it wasn't just a fast for the people but it was a fast for all God's creation. But both man and beast must be covered in sackcloth and let man call on God earnestly that each may turn

from his wicked way and from the violence which is on his hands. Who knows God may turn and relent and withdraw his burning anger so that we will not perish. When God saw their deeds that they turned from their wicked way then God relented concerning calamity which he had declared what he would bring upon them. Immediately we see God recognize what they were doing and relented. Very fascinating. What we see here and what we really see throughout the Old Testament are times when fasting fasting is vitally important to the lives and the followers of Yahweh. This discipline of fasting and listening for God's voice is a part of the larger and spiritual journey from making decisions and even discernment. This helps us place our reliance on God and his spirit and not on ourselves. And this

isn't to mitigate or take away wisdom that we've learned throughout life. Okay? Wisdom will tell you a child touches a hot stove and they won't touch it again hopefully. Wisdom is okay with that. But sometimes we need to rely on God's spirit for wisdom. And it takes an intentional thing of removing our own flesh from being able to hear God. This also leads us into an even deeper movement of our spiritual journey from control to surrender. How many in this room really like to be in charge of a situation? Like leadership just kind of rises up and you would actively seek to take control in a situation? Now that's not what I'm talking about here. what I'm talking about is control of your spiritual journey of following Christ. Of surrendering to Him and what He says

versus what we think our lives should be. I know that's a challenging thing for some of us here because we're like wait a minute I've been taught these things I've learned these things and that's not to say that you've been taught wrong or taught poorly but what I'm saying is are you surrendered to Christ to allow Him to be the one who leads you? That leader can be following Christ and that's fine but man I'm flawed dude come hang out with me for a few hours you'd know I'm not this I'm clearly most of you I'm not perfect. Emily's right there she'll tell you there's a few others in here that will back up that claim. but are you surrendered am I surrendered to Christ you better believe it you better believe it how important

our surrender is are you am I in control of my life or am I the Lord's servant doing it according to your word Lord fasting is a discipline by which opens our body and soul to God's spirit to facilitate essential movements deep within ourselves it's easy to say a prayer that somebody's leading you in and then you can think man I just accepted Christ into my life that's beautiful but then where's the rest of the journey taking you is the journey taking you to be formed into his image or is a journey taking you that oh I said this prayer and I don't I can just continue to be me is Christ making his indwelling in yourself I'm not judging I'm just asking and this is for us as people that want to lead others into

Christ are we just getting them to say a prayer or are we getting them to walk into the deeply formed life of following him and I know that that's tough it's challenging but we need to learn more about denying of ourself and allowing Christ to be at the front of it which leads us in to the beautiful deeply formed journey of following him I told you at the beginning we're gonna say I'm gonna say something spicy and it might not be that spicy but it's I want to be heard by God that sounds a little selfish that sounds slightly spiritually narcissistic that I want God to hear me but I want God to hear me I want to be heard by God for some of us these words can be kind of a red flag

and I get it I get it but let me remove that barrier that may be forming we are not fasting to pressure God into hearing us and ignore others we need to be very careful let's look at it like this fasting is denying the most basic fleshly need and our cravings require us to have food we are denying the most basic need we have which is food and water however when we're fasting we are quieting the voice of our fleshly need you're quieting the voice of your fleshly need and allowing the spirit of the Lord to fulfill that need Lord I need you in this moment because I want your spirit to be the loudest thing that I hear there's a song and I can't remember if it was Rick Pino or if it was

Dutch Sheets that was saying it but he was like praying that Lord I want your voice to be the loudest thing I hear I need it and he learned in college this is a interesting this is a fun fasting story that I don't know if you're familiar with Dutch Sheets he's a fairly prominent man of God that was very influential for us in the beginning parts of our walk with Christ but he said this while he was at Bible college that he wanted to get up early to have devotion then he would go to breakfast and he would go off to class but he was finding himself sleeping in so he didn't have devotion and then he would go to breakfast and then he would go to class so he was like flesh what are

you doing I want to get up early but then the next day he'd try to get up early he'd want to sleep in then he'd go to breakfast then he'd go to class and he was missing his devotion so he got to this point that he said I'm done with this flesh if you don't get up before if I don't get up in order to have devotion before I go to breakfast you can't have breakfast this morning and now that takes a very special thing to allow yourself to do that and it's only the spirit of God because you're in control of yourself he and his story was and the journey was that's what he did he beat his flesh up by fasting so that if you want breakfast you got to get up 45

minutes before we're supposed to so that I can have we can have devotion then we can have breakfast then we go to class fasting beat his flesh up because he wanted God's voice to be the loudest thing and not the need of eating even though remember I get it I love to eat I'm really good at eating but fasting enables me to be able to hear God more clearly and this isn't me on some like when Ryan asked me that actually when I was I don't know if I drew a short straw or what for this topic but when I saw on the list that this is the one that I had I immediately thought like man I don't typically fast and pray for an outcome and not that like the Lord just blesses me with

outcomes but I don't find myself and Emily and I both were dissecting this I don't find ourselves like okay I need this need to be met in my life Lord I'm fasting and praying for that need to be met I have not had a track record of doing that but I was like Lord what is the focus in here and he ever so quickly brought me to remembrance it's not about the desired outcome it's about hearing my voice so what if you don't fast and pray for an outcome Lord I need this new house I'm fasting and praying for a realtor to come into my site so that I can get this new home no it's about hearing his voice ever so clear and that was very freeing for me as I finished putting the

sermon notes together there's a lot of mystery in all of this Scriptures tells us tells us what and when we add fasting in a higher correlation with requests and God's release of his power there's so much mystery in Scripture and a lot of it is around you know this topic is very mysterious and different streams of the church have even different theories and theologies as to why and John Mark Comer who was responsible for most of the teachings that are the principles that are coming out in some of these teachings he said this is what he says he says my theory is it's because God's relational and his ultimate aim is to draw us into the inner life of the trinity with prayer and fasting takes us deeper into this union with God as I've

said as he said in the last lesson it burns away whatever is creating relational distances between us and God my personal or as Scott McKnight calls it his lived theology is that there is power in fasting because when we because we are most basic of our when our most basic need of our flesh is being denied and met by the power of God that's the nourishment that we need I know that that was a little confusing and jumbled let me say it one more time because it was very confusing in my head there is power in fasting because we are most basic of our fleshly need being met the most basic need of our flesh is fasting and it is met by the power of God fulfilling our need of nourishment it is only by his

spirit you may have another take another diverse array of theologies and opinions around the church of Jesus on why some prayers are answered and others are not but one thing is clear that God responds to prayer and fasting as we just read in Jonah the Ninevites believed God and he relented in his words this is a really interesting thing that we're going to dissect into really quick because some of you are going to read that and think in some of your versions it might say God repented and that's a really odd word why would God repent that doesn't sound right but sometimes in Scripture the same word is used multiple ways especially in the Old Testament and a beautiful example is the word Elohim is anybody familiar with this word awesome well not many of you

raised your hands you're gonna have to listen to me Elohim is translated multiple ways singular God multiple gods and God who's not Yahweh sometimes it's God as God sometimes it's God as Trinity sometimes it's a false God the same word so you'll read it especially in Psalm 82 it says Elohim stood in the midst of the other Elohim you look at that God stood in the midst of the God that doesn't make any sense but it's the same word used multiple ways that's why context and understanding language matters a lot the same thing goes for this word here because it says that when Nineveh repented God repented but it should read when Nineveh repented God relented that means he did not choose to bring upon them what do was them because they actually repented of their

wickedness I'm not saying that God changed his mind because we could argue that in some other Scriptures but we're not talking about this year God didn't change his mind God's characteristic of who his character decided the answer to what was happening and his answer was they repented so I'm going to relent I am not going to unleash on them what is due them because they actually repented not just like I'm sorry Lord I'm not going to do that again no even the king sent out a decree and said everything must fast everything must fast and pray man it it is amazing what happens when this takes place Arthur Willis says God's children still on okay sorry I didn't hear it for a second he says because man repents in respect to sin God repents in respect

to judgment and relent man's man's change of heart makes it morally possible for God to behave towards is that me maybe if I hold it out it's in my back pocket man's change of heart makes it morally responsible for God to behave differently towards him yet acting consistently with his holy character and principles we are often mistakenly assume that God is going to do what God is going to do with or without prayer but the pattern we read all throughout Scripture is when God's people pray and especially when they fast he responds why does he respond I mean I personally think that because fasting is revealing that Lord I'm willing to give up this thing that I know I need because I need you more how important is that the Jonah story is just one

there's many other examples let's end on this all to say that when it comes to hearing and being heard by God not only is fasting an aid to prayer but it is an amplifier and any of you play music you can play a guitar without an amplifier and you don't hear anything plug in the amplifier and all of a sudden the sound goes out everywhere but let's remember this the end goal of prayer is not ultimately to get out of it what we want from God but to get God himself it's union it's to enter the inner life of the Trinity with the Father the Son and the Holy Spirit their love over you and speak back love and truth to you it's union with God my whole life my journey my following God is becoming

more and more about union with him and nothing else it has to be simple it has to be about the presence of God and fasting enables me to get myself out of the way in order to get my body in alignment a little bit more with what God is doing so when you need to hear God or when you need to be heard by God consider practicing fasting let's pray Father in Jesus name Lord we walk into this life very cautiously very intentionally and we walk into even understanding and then walking out of practice of fasting Lord even more intentionally because one we want to be one with you it's not our desire to just become great amongst men but our desire Father I pray becomes to be one with you just as Jesus in the

garden in John 17 as he's praying and he has asked his disciples to fast and pray and yet even though they fell asleep Jesus still said the words that I be in them as you are in me and that those that come after them would hear these words and be one with you and so Father I just pray in Jesus name that you would work out in each one of us what that looks like and Father I pray for your spirit right now Lord to even work through or to reveal to each one of us Lord who we are in you who we are in you Lord and let that be the catalyst that reveals the depths of your life inside each one of us Father we bless you in Jesus name Amen because I get

to hand off hard things like this to good friends like Nick no thank you very much I think you handled it well it's a there's mystery here right there's mystery in this tension and as I've been meditating on it I thought about that verse that Holly read at our time of worship the father's prayer to Jesus I believe but help me overcome my unbelief I think fasting is a way for us to with our whole selves say that to God God I believe the same God that raised Jesus from the dead can and is working in whatever situations I'm dealing with struggling with praying through but help me overcome my unbelief so as we conclude the service I really want to take some dedicated time and prayer for some things that I'm sure many of us

in this room are struggling with many many of us have probably been praying for days weeks months sometimes years for certain things to happen and they seem to be in line with God's will right we're praying something that we know God desires God desires healing he desires salvation he desires justice he desires peace these are areas of his character that we're convinced of we're praying in accordance with it and yet we're not seeing it happen

do me a favor here I'm gonna ask a couple questions and if if this resonates with you raise your hand number one raise your hand if someone you care about is struggling with a physical or mental illness that you are praying for God to heal look around the room pretty much pretty much all of us raise your hand if someone you love is dealing with a broken relationship that you long to see restored raise your hand if someone you love has walked away from the Lord and you're praying that God will bring them back raise your hand if someone you love has a physical or financial need that you are praying God will miraculously provide for lastly raise your hand if you've been consistently praying for something that seems like it's consistent with God's will

and yet the prayer has been unanswered so there's mystery here right I'm not saying that fasting fixes everything and there's tension and we wrestle with God about why is he not seeming to answer the things that we feel like he should right there's this tension and we find it in the Lord's Prayer when we pray God your kingdom come your will be done on earth as it is in heaven I found this quote from David Platt that I think summarizes all of this really well he says one day all of our praying and all of our fasting and pursuit of God will culminate in the goal of our salvation everlasting uninterrupted uninhibited unimaginable indescribable all satisfying communion with God the reality is God will miraculously show up and answer prayers on earth before he brings

heaven to earth but for those prayers that remain unanswered one day heaven will come to earth and all of our prayers that are in line with God's will we will see happen I love I think it's Habakkuk that the glory of the Lord will fill the earth as the waters cover the sea we will see our prayers answered one day and in the meantime in the tension in the mystery we wrestle we fast we pray we ask of

like the father I believe help me overcome my unbelief so again fasting this is just an invitation for you to consider there's multiple reasons why you might consider fasting we talked about three so far I have a group of individuals that I am close with that we just decided one day a week from now till Easter we are going to pray for the salvation of these people that we love not saying that that's a golden ticket that I got the award and it's going to happen but we we're praying and we're making an invitation on Easter Sunday

but I'm still going to trust him because he's faithful so I just want to take this time at the end of service to just pray for those things that we raised our hands about pray for those areas those people so as I'm praying over these areas just bring to mind the person the situation that you're praying for and join me in praying that God might show up and do

we are so thankful that you invite us to pray we are so thankful of testimonies of people in this room where you have showed up and done miraculous things testimonies in the Scriptures of you showing up and doing miraculous things and we believe that the same God that raised Jesus from the dead has power over death sin and the grave in this life and in the life to come so God we pray that your kingdom will come on earth as it is in heaven that your kingdom will invade the situations of our life where your kingdom is not yet clear it's not visible God we pray for those who have mental and physical illnesses things that have been going on for weeks months years decades we pray God that you would show up you choose

to show up miraculously supernaturally God that you would show off your goodness and your faithfulness not because you have to not because we deserve it but because you're good God may your kingdom come and your will be done in the physical and mental illnesses of those we love God for the broken relationships for the marriages that have been ripped apart the families that have been ripped apart the prodigals who have walked away God we desire to see your kingdom come and your will to be done in the relationships that we care about God may you begin to soften hearts humble humble humble who are holding grudges God may you begin to show up and supernaturally miraculously are going to restore relationships so that your kingdom may come and your will may be done through these

relationships that have been broken God for those of us that have loved ones that have not accepted your good news your gospel the way of living that leads to abundant and eternal life God we know the Scriptures say that you desire that everyone should come to know you we desire that with you we pray that for those that we love for our family members and our friends and our co-workers and our neighbors God may you may you do a work through our church may we see people come to know you people that we thought are too far gone people that we thought there's no chance this person is going to come to know you God may you be doing Damascus road moments all around our lives with people we love may you show up and

may you say I am the one you're rejecting I am the one you are persecuting follow me and you will find life God may your kingdom come and your will be done in the lives of those we love that don't know you God for physical and financial provision this this is one we don't like to pray in church because it's been misused but God you clothe the birds and the lilies of the field you care about our physical and financial needs God may you show up through the lives of believers or just supernaturally miraculously provide for those who are hurting God may your kingdom come and your will be done in situations where people are in need

Father lastly I'm sure there are other situations and circumstances that people have been praying for for a long time God they're confused they're maybe angry or upset with you God we humble ourselves before you and we acknowledge that your thoughts are not our thoughts that your ways are not our ways God we open ourselves to be changed by you and we continue to hold out hope that you will show up and that you will bring your kingdom on earth as it is in heaven God we hold out hope until that day comes but one day Christ will return he'll wipe away every tear from our eyes there will be no more mourning no more pain no more confusions or questions about unanswered prayers here I hear Christians all the time say when I come before

God I'm going to ask him this no you're not our questions will be answered we trust you God we believe help us overcome our unbelief Jesus name I pray amen all right church you're dismissed go in peace to to
