A SUMMER'S JOURNEY: The Faithful Martyr
2024-08-26
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iYrjZJ4IMsQ

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's a nice day. Mm-hmm. Yeah, it is. So, what do you do for a living? Well, I'm an auto mechanic. What? No. You just said you were... I'm a heart surgeon over at the hospital next door. You married? 21 years. Kids? My kids? Mm-hmm. Yes, I have three. Annie is 15, Caroline is 12, and Kate, she just turned 10. Gosh, I remember when she was... Own or rent? A house? Yeah. I... I own a house. We had it built seven years ago. It was a nightmare. You see, we couldn't get the builder to... Who's the builder? Northland Homes. Look, forgive me, but all of these questions are making me feel like I'm applying for a loan or something. Oh, I'm sorry. Maybe it's the researcher side of me. Oh.

Do you ever smoke a Cuban cigar? Uh, no. Never. Uh, so... Are you one of those polling people? Oh, hardly, Georgia. Do you have any household pets at all? Yes, my daughter Caroline has a fish. So, what do you do, if I may ask? Oh, this and that. So, there's no domestic mammals? There are allergies in the home? Aaron's allergic to cats. So, are you a doctor or a consultant? No. And who is Aaron? Aaron is my husband. Are you a psychologist or a therapist? No, Georgia.

Do you, uh, do you have, do you know what, uh, have you ever been, have you, come to think of this. What was that called? Have you ever seen It's a Wonderful Life? The movie. Yes, of course. You know, Jimmy, Jimmy Stewart, Uncle Billy, Mr. Potter, Mr.. Yes, I know, the movie. Yes, but did you like it? It was fine. Okay. So, what's your favorite flower? A rose. How about your favorite soft drink? Dr. Pepper. Okay. Do you know what a cursor is? It's the thing on your mouth, on the computer screen. You move it with your mouth. Very good. But do you like reggae music? It's okay, but look, I just wanted to just... Does your mattress have individually coiled springs? Sure. Honestly, I don't know. So, what's your shoe size? Oh, my gosh!

That's enough! You don't, you don't know? No, yes! You forgot it. Stop it! Oh, this is just going too far. These questions were kind of fun, at first, maybe, I don't even know. But this is just, just, I just can't even, what, you won't even tell me who you are! Are you with the FBI? Secret Service? Oh, are you with the IRS? Georgia, you're in my cosmos. Look, today has been enough, without some... What did you say? You're in my cosmos, Georgia. You're cosmos. Yes. And now I have to deal with you. Deal with me? What do you mean, deal with me? I have to get to know you. Find out about you. See if you fit in. Fit in? Into what? The Alan Whitty Question Club? No, Georgia. Like I said, my cosmos. What do you mean, your cosmos?

My realm of knowledge and existence. Everyone has one. Really? When was I lucky enough to enter yours? Just about the time you walked between those two birch trees. That's your cosmos? No, Georgia. That's one border. Okay, let me explain. It begins over here at the hedge of buckthorns. Goes around to the big sumac tree. Goes over to the wooden swing set. But, does not include that wooden swing set. Okay. Comes back to the first of the birch trees. Back over here to the third baseline of the ball field. And back to the hedge. Real simple, isn't it? Except, now you're in it. Why? Because you walk between those two- No, no, no. Why is that your cosmos? No, wait. This doesn't make any sense. That can't be your cosmos. You've got to be kidding. Don't you know what a cosmos is?

Oh sure, it's the universe. What you know to be and exist. Very good, Georgia. Sit down. So, how much of your cosmos do you know about? A lot. I went to college, you know. Okay. So, how much do you understand? Not very much, huh? Well, you didn't even give me a chance! I do know a lot. And a person learns more. Every day. Very good. But how much can you cope with? I'd say a fair amount. Pretty much. But how much can you make better, writer better? Some. But you always have the burden of trying to change things you can't, right? Well, sure, but... But then you always, with that burden comes things that are uncomfortable to you that you just can't change no matter how hard you try. Okay, yes. But, Alan, what does this have to do with your cosmos?

Wouldn't it be much more pleasant if you just didn't know about the things that made you uneasy? Well, why would we want to do that? Okay. Let me explain, Georgia. Okay. One day when that swing set was part of my cosmos. Uh-huh. I was watching, there was a little boy who was swinging. He's swinging higher and higher, laughing his heart out, having a great time. Then a little girl started coming up behind him. She thought it was a game. She didn't realize the danger she was in and no one told her anything about it. He just kept swinging and swinging and higher and then all of a sudden she ran at the swing and he hit her so hard she really went flying. Gosh. He hit her right in the head. She just flying so far and she didn't even know what hit her.

Well, was she okay? I think so. No, I don't think she was. The boy ran away. I don't know. Well, was she moving? I couldn't see. So you don't even know if she was breathing? No, I wasn't close enough to see. Well, Alan, where were you? Right here. And you didn't do anything? Absolutely. I did something right away. Oh, so how did you take care of her? I eliminated that swing set for my cosmos. You did what? That did it, Georgia. There was no more concern, no more accountability, and best of all, no more discomfort for me. You didn't even see if she was all right. There was no need. No need, Alan. She could have been lying there unconscious. No, Georgia. Don't you understand? That did not exist anymore. She just wasn't there. That portion had been, that part had been delimited from my cosmos.

That is the power of being able to shape your old cosmos, Georgia. You can eliminate all those things that make you feel uncomfortable. Huh.

Alan, do you smoke? I used to. Let me see here. Do you drink? A little bit. Maybe some wine. Why? Fatty diet. Well, not really. What's wrong? Do you mind if I listen? Okay. Do you have half blood pressure? Uh, borderline. Are you on any medications? Oh, just vitamins. Nothing exorbitant. Any family history of heart problems? Hmm. Oh, I had a grandfather. He died of a heart attack when he was 58. Grandpa Jack. Boy, he was a surly old... And he didn't like kids either. Hmm. Hmm? We're done. We're done? What did you hear? My heart was beating, right? Oh, more like cracking. Cracking? Is cracking serious? Oh, you've developed cardiogranitosis. Sheesh, Georgia. Is that serious? Oh, it's fatal if left untreated. And let's do something. You're the heart surgeon. What do you suggest? I suggest we go next door and remove it from your cosmos.

Oh, oh, cut that out. I mean, uh... Cardiogranit. What is this? You said it was serious, but now you're just kidding with me. All right, listen. Take it from someone who knows hearts. If you continue to shrink your world simply because the experiences that you have in it make you uncomfortable, you're going to end up with a heart of stone. Well, I'll take my chances. Well, how about you take some free advice first? Don't sit here numb while the world around you shrinks. It just may be your abilities that the world needs to change some of the wrongs that you're so uncomfortable with. Don't shut your world out, Alan. It needs you too much. Well, you know what? I think I'll get a second opinion on this. Well, then you take care, Alan. You're a real interesting fellow.

I hope you'll let me into your cosmos again. That is, if there's any room for me. Oh, there will be. I mean, uh, thank you, doctor, and hope you do well at your hospital. Thanks. Bye. Goodbye, Georgia. Well, that eliminates all the Georges from my cosmos. Hey, mister, can you help me get my ball down from that tree over there? Mister, can you help me get my ball down? It got stuck up in that tree. What's the matter? Can't you hear me? I need help with my ball, please. Mister, can you help me? You look like you can reach it, please. I don't think he can even hear me. Excuse me, um, can you point me in the direction of the pond? Why don't you ask this guy on the bench? Why don't you ask this guy on the bench?

Why don't you ask this guy on the bench? I'm meeting my friends there. We looked at the map. Mr. Hello, the pond? Hello, sir, can you hear us? Oh, okay. Oh, okay.

So, I have a question for you. Are you more like Alan or a committed follower of Jesus? Oh, okay. So, the passage that we're focused on today, if I can get it up. I hate technology. Does someone have a Bible? We got 300 people in the room. No one has a Bible? That's okay. Oh, there we go. I actually said a little prayer as I was walking down. I should have started that way. So, Ryan asked me to finish out this series on Paul. And we're going to finish the series on Paul with his suspicion that he's finished. In Timothy, we know very clearly that he was ready to be martyred. He says it, and he says it in a very poignant way. It was a way that Romans would have understood. He said, "I'm being poured out like a drink offering."

And in the Roman world, when they would end their meal, they would sacrifice the last glass of wine to their God, and they would literally, it's done. They'd pour it out. But the passage for today comes out of Philippians. And so, for the three of you that have a Bible with you, if you'll open it to Philippians chapter 2, if you have your phone, you can turn your Bible on, it works better than mine. And I'm going to read a section of Scripture, and then I'm going to talk, and then I'm going to read another section of Scripture, and I'm going to talk, and then I'm going to read a last section of Scripture, and I'm going to talk. But to be quite honest, if I'm going to do this well, I'm going to need some help.

And so, is there someone here who would be willing to stand and pray for the preaching of God's Word loud and proud? Thank you. So, you know, there are billions of people today on our globe, in our cosmos, who have no real witness of Jesus Christ. There's literally no capacity for them to hear the Gospel of Jesus Christ, let alone respond to it. So there was this executive director of a large missions organization who was speaking at a megachurch. I'm not going to give specific names to protect the guilty. But when he came, he was supposed to have like six to eight minutes to talk about the mission that he had to Muslims and what they were doing and what it meant. It was shortly after 9/11. And apparently, the church had some kind of new response

they wanted to do to 9/11. And so, he got there in the morning and the pastor came up to him and said, "I'll create a name. Jim, we really appreciate you're here. Thank you so much. But we're only going to give you a minute and a half this morning. We have some other things that we've got to fit into our service. And so, sorry, but talk to us for a minute and a half." So Jim gets up and he said, "You know, I've been looking forward to coming to this church for a long time. So, I understand you're a praying church, which I think is awesome. How many of you have prayed for the victims, the families of the victims, the first responders to 9/11 in this last week?" And he said, "Like 90% of the hands all went up."

Oh, that's so good to see. I'm so glad. You know, I work with Muslims and we're trying to reach Muslims who don't know Christ. And he said, "How many of you have prayed for the over 1 billion people in the world who are locked under the deception of Islam with no access to the gospel? How many of you have prayed for them this week?" He said, "About 15 hands went up." He said, "Oh man." And I thought this was a mission church. And he walked off the stage. So when we look at our globe, when we look at our world, when we look at the literally billions of people whom Christ loves and died for, are we more like Alan? Or are we more like a committed follower of Jesus? In Philippians chapter 2, Paul says, beginning with verse 14,

"Do everything without grumbling or arguing, so that you may become blameless and pure, children of God without fault in a warped and crooked generation. And then you will shine among them like stars in the sky as you hold firmly the word of life. And then I will be able to boast on the day of Christ that I did not run or labor in vain. But even if I am being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service coming from your faith, I am glad and rejoice with all of you so that you too should be glad and rejoice with me." You know, in this passage, let me back up. Paul is speaking to the Philippian church. What do we know of the Philippian church? It is one of the few churches he planted when he got to the town.

There was no synagogue. Paul would normally go to a town to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. He would go to the synagogue. He would preach the word. And if they would receive him, that was great. If they didn't, eventually he did kind of move on to the Gentiles. But his beginning place was at the synagogue. When he got to Philippi, he just found a couple of Jewish people down by the river. Lydia, a woman and some other followers. And so he shared with them. Why was there no synagogue? Because it was a Roman colony. One of the things the Romans would do to keep the peace of Rome throughout their huge empire, when they had a strategic spot militarily, move retired military folks, folks who were no longer in the army but had been trained,

and they would locate them in this city. It would become a colony. And the colony was basically reserved for Rome if they needed them. And so when Paul came to Philippi, there was no Jewish persecution of Paul in Philippi. In fact, if you read it, it was the Romans that were giving him problems. You remember the story, right? Acts chapter 16. He goes, he talks to Lydia. They kind of believe. It's kind of cool. It's not really enough for a church yet, but that's a good start. And then as he's walking through the town, there's this slave woman who was a, she would prophesy. She would fortune tell. She would be able to tell things. And the Scriptures let us know that she was demon possessed, and she was annoying Paul. And so as she was annoying Paul,

he finally got sick of it. He turned around. He rebuked her. And then he realized, well, it's not her. It's a demon. So he rebuked the demon. He delivered her from demonic oppression. And she was freed. And the guy who owned her was like, well, how's she going to fortune tell anymore? I'm not going to get any money. And so he went and he grabbed Paul. He told him to the magistrates. They stripped him. They beat him. Silas was with him. They did it to him too. They stuck him in jail. Do you remember the story? And so he's in jail. He's in stocks. The lights are out. And God shakes the earth. Oh, by the way, when he's there, I don't know about you, but I would be like grumbling and complaining. I mean, I would have a big wine for God, you know?

I would have a lament. But he and Silas were like, well, let's worship God. And so they're worshiping the Lord. The other prisoners can hear it. God shakes the ground. The prison doors pop open. The stocks come open. And the jailer comes rushing in. He thinks they've all left. They're going to kill me. I'd rather kill myself before they kill me. He goes to kill himself. And Paul says, no, no, no, no, no. Everything's cool. We're all still here. The jailer's shocked, asked him some questions. And of course, Paul begins to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. The jailer, his whole family, they get baptized. That's the church that he's now writing to. It's these Romans. And he's saying, hey guys, remember when we started, I was in prison. I'm in prison again. And you know what it's like, because I know verse chapter one, verse 28, 29, 30.

I know that you're suffering like I was. So this church is born. The church is born. They're having a tough time. They're struggling. And Paul says, I'm in prison. I'm writing to you. I'm writing to you to encourage you. But I need you to know that I might die this time around. Again, let me read it to you. But even if I am being poured out like a drink offering. Even if I am, if this is it. Now, we don't know if this was it or not. Some suspect it was not. He went on. He went on to Spain. Others say, no, he probably died here. We don't. The Bible doesn't answer that question. Some historians answer the question, but they answer it differently. But for our context, Paul is thinking, I'm coming to the end.

I've kept the faith. I've run the race. I've served my cosmos as best I can. And now I want to encourage those who are struggling like I am, who are going to carry it on after me. But even if I'm being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service coming from your faith. And then he says this. I'm glad and I rejoice with all of you. So in this passage, I actually think that God gives us one of the most difficult commands that he's ever given. Let me read it for you. And then you tell me if this is difficult for you too. Do everything without grumbling or arguing. Remember, they're suffering. They're having a tough time. In fact, Paul goes on. Do everything out grumbling or arguing so that you may be blameless and pure children of God without fault in a warped and crooked generation.

You guys are in a warped and crooked generation. Your co-workers, they're awful. Don't grumble. Your neighbors, they're just wrong on their politics. Don't argue. Paul is not saying, I know it's really good so you have no reason to grumble or argue. He's actually saying, no, our generation is crooked. It's wicked. It's bent. It's really bad. And I know there's some folks in here who, like me, love to grumble. You love to argue. Paul says, don't do it. Don't grumble. Don't argue. Don't argue. Why? Because then you're going to shine. And not only are you going to shine, but I'll actually, when I stand before the Lord, which I think might be coming soon, I'll be able to boast about you. And I'm looking forward to that day when I can boast about you because my preaching has not been in vain.

See, these are folks who know Jesus, love Jesus, are suffering for Jesus, and they're being tempted away from that. And Paul said, don't grumble. Don't argue. Stick it out. Even though we're in a crooked and warped generation, because God is worth it. Let me be the example. Even though I might be at my end, in him I'm glad, and I rejoice. You know, it's interesting, this word about labor and, well, let me get it, run or labor in vain. How many of you watched the Olympics? So, do those folks who actually made it there, did they labor? Yeah. That's actually the word that Paul uses here. It's the same word that they used, because you don't know Macedonia, that's where, like, the Olympics started. The Olympics were really big back then. In fact, they were better at the Olympics than we were.

They were tribes that were fighting all the time. And for the months that the Olympics happened, it's probably the only time in human history where all wars stopped. In order to honor these Olympians who had, who had labored till exhaustion to be able to be the best at what they are. Paul said, I have labored over you. So, please don't grumble, don't argue, but trust the Lord and see what he's going to do. It's a powerful word. Now, I know some of you are thinking, give me a break, Matt. I mean, my question is, are you more like Alan or more like Paul? Matt, if you give me that one, I'm probably more like Alan than I am like Paul. I get it. You know, give me a break, so I'm not like Paul. Okay, that's fair.

So, Paul says, well, and it's not just me. But if you'll follow with me to verse 19. I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon. That I may also be cheered when I receive news about you. I have no one else like him who will show genuine concern for your welfare. For everyone looks out for their own interests, not that of Jesus Christ. So, are you more, okay, I'm not more like Paul than Alan. Are you more like Alan or Timothy? Timothy was the go-to guy for Paul. He's who Paul sent to Thessalonica, 1 Thessalonians 3:8. He's the one who Paul sent to Corinth. You remember Corinth? They were the really messed up church. Paul sent him to Corinth, 1 Corinthians 4:17. Paul sends him to Philippi. Why? Because there's no one else like him.

His concern is for Jesus above his own concerns. When I was first starting church planting 35 years ago, we went and listened to Bob Logan, who was kind of the guru of church planting at the time. And I remember a lot of the things he taught, but one of the things he said, he said, you know, unfortunately, most Christians, their favorite radio station is WIIFM. What's in it for me? What's in it for me? We all have this tendency, and I would be remiss if I didn't admit that I too have this tendency to look out for my own concerns. But Paul, at the end of his life, is saying, I've run the race, and I may be poured out, but I rejoice, and I'm glad. And I've sent Timothy, who rejoices, and is glad, because his concern is one thing: Jesus.

I think it's an important question to ask ourselves. Are we more like Alan? Or like Timothy? Hebrews 13:23 tells us that Timothy actually ended up a prisoner for Christ's sake as well. But I know what you're thinking. Come on, Matt. Give me a break. I'm not called to be a pastor like Timothy. I'm not Paul. I'm not a pastor. Give me a break. Okay, Paul says, that's fine. Let's go to the third person. Verse 25. He said, so I'd like to come. Don't know if I can. I'd like to send Timothy. Don't know if I can. But I think it's necessary to send back to you Epaphroditus. And he's not a pastor. He's not an apostle. Now, he's just a brother, co-worker, and fellow soldier. It's a fascinating story of him. Paul started the Philippian church.

And by the way, Timothy was there when he started the church. And they are probably the closest church to him. It's the only church that Paul allowed to receive an offering and give it to his missionary band to be able to do the work that they were doing. This Philippians is considered the gospel of joy. There's almost this smile in Paul's heart as he's sitting in prison about to die, writing to this church that he cares about so much, that he loves so much. They have this reciprocity. And Epaphroditus was there because the Philippian church, for the third time now, has taken up this offering, and they've sent it to Paul. But back then, you can't Venmo it. And so you send someone with it. And Epaphroditus was the one who was given the offering to travel through a scary world to finally get to where Paul is in Rome while he's in prison and to hand him the gift.

Listen to what Paul says about him. But I think it's necessary to send back to you Epaphroditus, my brother, co-worker, fellow soldier, who is also the messenger whom you sent to take care of my needs. For he longs for all of you, is distressed because he hurt, you heard he was ill, indeed he was ill, and almost died. But God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also on me, to spare me sorrow upon sorrow. Therefore, I am more eager to send him to you, so that you will see him again, and may be glad, and I may have less anxiety. So welcome him in the Lord with great joy and honor, people like him, because he almost died for the work of Christ. In a little bit, I'm going to call Tara up to lead us in prayer for our brothers in India, particularly the Kumars who we support, and I'll say a little more about that.

There in Andhra Pradesh, and I mean, if this is India, Andhra Pradesh is over here. Well, the state right above it, it was Orissa, it's now Odessa. A friend of mine, Bajoy Raul, was a pastor that went into the jungles of Orissa and began to share the gospel. His testimony is, when he first went to the jungles, this was, again, 40, 50 years ago, he went in and people were naked and living in trees. But he knew that Jesus died for them. He knew it was going to be hard, but he began to share the gospel. And they began to respond to the gospel, and he realized this was bigger than him. And so, while he cared for them, he also went back to his home area, and he began to disciple and, not evangelize, these guys were already believers,

but discipled them to be evangelists and witnesses, because there was so much need in Orissa, he could never get to it. And he had the smart idea of multiplying. You teach others who can teach others who can teach others. And so he taught these folks, and they would go into Odessa, and they would share the gospel, and it was exploding. When Bejoy came to the States to raise some funds, he was telling the stories of what God was doing, the miracles of how God had protected him and protected his evangelists, but also how hard it was and how difficult it was. But it was for the gospel of Jesus Christ. And as he was sharing in the congregation, the executive director of our mission board was there with him, and they were talking and sharing.

And he was talking about these evangelists who knew that about 70% of them were going to end up with malaria if they went into Orissa. It was mosquito-ridden. They would use nets and that kind of stuff, but it was hard. And he talked about them being willing to go, and he said, about 15 minutes into his message as he's sharing this story, one guy raised his hand, and he said, Brother Bejoy, I don't get it. If they knew they were going to get malaria, why would they go? Bejoy was dumbfounded. He didn't want to offend these folks, but he just finally, he looked at Jack, the mission director, like, I don't know how to answer that. And Jack said, because they have no other way to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. The story of Paul ends with the realization

that he was all in. And not only was he all in, but the people he discipled, Timothy's, they were all in. And not only the Timothys who became pastors, but the people from the churches where he planted churches were all in. And their concern was primarily for the gospel of Jesus Christ. For the grace of God that they had received, the response was not, should I go? The response was, how can I not go? Keith Green, 40 years ago, at a concert, he said, you know, the command has already been given to go. The question shouldn't be, should I go? The question should be, why should I stay?

Now, I'm not trying to call you all into missions. Ryan would be really bummed at me if you all left tomorrow. Well, no, he'd probably be excited. He'd probably be excited. Because I think Ryan would lay down his ministry to see the gospel spread across the globe. So, are we more like Alan? Are we more like Paul or Timothy or Epaphroditus? It's a fair question. It's a question that, well, back to my illustration from the very beginning. The missionary executive director that stood up and had 90 seconds to present a ministry to over a billion people who don't know Jesus with an attempt to not just raise funds, but recruit people. It's like a good friend of mine. He was working in Spain, which is in the 1040 window. And a pastor told him, I want you to talk about what you're doing,

but I don't want you asking for any money, Bruce. Bruce was like, okay. So, when he was giving his talk, he got up there. And this, I mean, I heard him do it. He said, I just want you to know that I'm not here for your money. I don't want your money. I mean, you know, you do what God tells you, but I'm not here for your money. I need your children.

That's the all-in gospel. Tara, can you come? We're going to pray for the Kumars. I think you know that part of the philosophy of outreach and ministry here is that we choose just a few ministries, and we focus there. So the kids' club, we do tons of stuff at the kids' club, and constantly looking for ways to be Jesus to the kids' club. By the way, if you're convicted, but you say, I can't go to India, great, can you read to some kids over at the kids' club? Start there. We work with a ministry in, I think it's in Tennessee, is that right? Where they basically rescue women out of trafficking, sex trafficking, and try to give them identity back and life back. But the third, and that's kind of our Jerusalem and our Judea,

but our third is to the uttermost parts of the world, and so we've chosen to focus on the Kumars because, first of all, the Kumars are part of our tribe, part of our family of churches, but they also have a similar philosophy of ministry. They say, we want to find a real need for people who are hurting, and we want to provide for that need in a way that displays the love of Jesus so that then they're intrigued to ask, why are you doing this? And I can say, because of what Jesus has done for me. How can I not do it? And so they teach women to sew. Most of these women have been abandoned by their husbands, and they have no job. They just have a whole bunch of ministries, and so we've tried

to support them. They work in Andhra Pradesh. 60 million peoples live in the state of Andhra Pradesh in India. 91.4% are Hindu. 7.1% are Muslim. Only 1.3% of the people there even claim the name of Jesus. And I have to ask the question, do they live the name of Jesus? It's kind of the same question I'm asking you today. Do we live the name of Jesus? Or do we shrink our cosmos? Well, the executive director, when he spoke to that church, he thought, I can only do one thing in 90 seconds. Maybe I can prod them to pray for the billions of people who need Jesus and to pray for some of the laborers and to pray for some of the laborers who are kupane, who are laboring to exhaustion to bring the gospel of Jesus Christ

to the people who God loves, who God says, them. Don't forget them. I care about them. I care about them. I want us to care about them. So I'm going to ask Terry if she will lead us in prayer for the commanders. This is not a time when you just sit and listen to her pray. But in your heart of hearts, in your silent place, God can hear your thoughts clearly. Can you agree? Can you too at least begin this journey of all in for Jesus with prayer? And the prayer might be bless them, Lord. Encourage them, Lord. Send resources to them, Lord. It might also be how else do you want me to participate, Lord? Where is my place of making a difference for Jesus here or in Tennessee or in India or wherever God might be sending?

Because the task is huge, but our God is bigger. And his resource, it's amazing. It's you and the Holy Spirit. That's his resource. There's no plan B. That's how he does it. So Tara, would you lead us in prayer and then explain to us who else we're praying for and I'll close this. Will you pray with me? Father God, we come to you together in prayer and when we say amen, amen at the end, let us remember that that word actually kind of means that we are agreeing. We're saying that's truth. That's verily that we agree. So as we come to you, let us actually mean it and live it out. God, we thank you for people who are on fire for you, who love to go out and share your word, whether it's with somebody

at school or somebody that they pass on the street, somebody that they work with or somebody that they've never met, people who have the passion and feel compelled by the Holy Spirit to go to the farthest reaches of the earth and share the excitement and love that they feel from you that they can't bear to keep to themselves. God, put a little bit of that fire in all of us so that we can be inspired by some of these folks who dedicate their lives and labor for you, for people who have never had the opportunity to hear about you. We pray specifically for Sudhir and Latha Kumar who are our missionaries in India that we support. God, we lift them up and we pray that they feel you wrapping your arms around them because I'm sure

there are days that they feel like they've done enough and it's just so hard and they may not think that they're making a huge difference but they are. God, give them endurance to run the race you've set before them. Help us remember to pray for them more than just today but every day. we also pray for missionaries that the brethren have throughout the world in Lima, Puerto Maldonada and Pucasana, Peru, in Santiago, Chile, also in Colombia, Argentina, Paraguay, Spain, Malaysia and the Philippines and God, there are people who are not official missionaries who are still going out in their chocolate factory talking to the people they see every day about you and showing your love in everything they do and how they interact with people and God, we pray for them too and I pray for each

and every one of us in this room that whatever the Spirit puts on them today inspires them to put a little bit more of that into their week as they meet folks and try to share the love that they feel from you and in addition to praying for our missionaries this is a little off the script but I know that the Flower family has touched a lot of people in this room Joel and Crystal Flower lost their youngest son a couple days ago and their faith has been inspiring for anybody who knows them and God, we hope that their faith inspires us to love you more in Jesus' name we pray Amen If the Spirit of God touched you today and if you are interested in how you can engage in ministry beyond what you're currently

doing particularly outreach Tara is our board member for that whole area of outreach whether it's world missions or local missions she keeps her eye on it she advocates for it she prays for it and she'd be a great person to tap on the shoulder and say hey what would you suggest is next and she might say I don't know let's pray together she might say I don't know let's go talk to Ryan she might say hey tomorrow I'm doing such and such come with me I don't know what she'll say but I hope you have some kind of next step in your life that's important receive now the benediction now unto him who is able to reach them through us and present them blameless and with great joy to the only wise God our Savior

through Jesus Christ our Lord be glory and majesty dominion and power now today and forevermore amen go in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord Jesus Christ be the church
