PRAYER: Talking With God
2024-01-29
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmVjGyNMexI

is to open your heart to God. To lift your heart and mind to the Father. To partner with Jesus to bend the arc of human history in the direction of the kingdom. To pray is to do something with the Spirit, and for the Spirit to do something in us. To speak and to listen. To pray is to commune with a God who is closer to us than we are to ourselves.

All right. Prayer. That's why we're here. Practicing the way of prayer is something that we want to instantiate in the lives of everybody here at Canvas Community Church. We want it to become a steady practice in everyone's life. A thing we always do. A very regular part of life. And it can take many forms. Obviously, loud, silent, sung, spoken. It's many forms. And I know that a lot of people in the room here are at different levels in their association with God. You may be a person that just prays constantly without even thinking about it anymore. It's just part of your daily life. You may be a person who goes back to prayer to remind yourself of God's goodness. Because it's true that in prayer, when we get with God, we remember the good times.

Just like when you meet an old friend. You begin to remember why you were friends. You meet with God and you remember when He's come through and when He's shown up and when He's answered prayer. You may be somebody who goes to prayer when you feel like there's just no clear way forward and you need direction. It's a directional assistance relationship. And you may be somebody, the metaphorical atheist in the foxhole, who goes to God when there's no other choice because there's nothing left to do. It's just, and for those people, I want to talk to you specifically for a minute. That can make you skeptical about prayer. If the only time you throw, if you go to God, is when you're throwing out a desperate, a hopeless word of desperation to the universe because nothing else can work.

And it can make you feel like prayer is a futile or a desperate or a hopeless or a meaningless endeavor. And I would like you to take a moment to re-examine that moment when you say, I need that moment of desperation when you pray. Remind yourself that the recognition that what you've always known to be true actually is true, that you're not in control, right? In moments of crisis, I become very clear. My pretensions and my delusions and my plans and my belief that I'm in charge and can make something happen strip away and you have to deal with the facts. And so to say to yourself that in that moment, I'm taking on this deluded action, that's out of the norm. It's in that moment that you recognize the truth that you were not in control

and there is someone greater than you and you throw out to him for help. You get honest with yourself, right? C.S. Lewis said in a broader sense, it's in the process of being worshiped that God communicates his presence to man. You communicate to God. You recognize the greatness, his greatness in relationship to yourself. You begin to worship him and then you come to understand him. And it's that moment of crisis. I don't know that God gives you a crisis so that you'll come to him. That could happen. But it's definitely the function of a crisis. It drives you to Christ, right? It drives you to prayer. And as Ryan reminded us last week, in the Lord's Prayer itself, God said, I am holy, perfect Abba, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be your name.

I'm holy, set apart. I'm the perfect God. And I'm still your intimate Abba Father. It's this massive creator of the universe who desires an intimate connection with us. And we, it says, are needy people. More than physical, we need our daily bread. We need forgiveness for our sins. We need help with temptations. We need deliverance from the evil around us and in us, right? We're very needy people who have nothing that he has to offer. And that gap is what inspires the worship when we come to recognize it. So those are moments of clear clarity and importance that can come from a moment of desperation. Don't undervalue that. That moment of prayer is exceptionally important. It's a unique conversation. However you enter into it with an independent and willful being that's different from anybody else

you run into, right? So we have to make prayer a regular practice in our lives so that we don't forget, so that we don't give in to our delusion of our own importance. That's what we're doing. We're embarked on this series, a three-year series, of looking at spiritual practices to develop discipleship. Christ said, follow me. To follow someone and emulate them and become more like them is to be their disciple. To emulate Christ, to build his virtues in our life takes practice. We want to build Christ's virtue in us so that we become more Christ-like. So we're going to have roughly three series a year for the next three years, and we're going to have space between them because we're going to talk about prayer, and then you guys need time to put prayer into practice

and make that an activity that you do regularly. And then we'll go to the next one. And we're hoping, we're planning, we're going to build spiritual practices into our body, right? So that the body of Christ takes on the character of Christ. That's what we want to do. Our current, and in this particular one, we want you all to have a vibrant prayer life that's rooted in delight, which is what Ryan said yesterday. And for it to be a vibrant life rooted in delight requires not habit, but discipline, right? A habit is something you do every time because you said you were going to do it because you're used to doing it, and it's bereft of life, but you keep doing it, it's a drudgery. That's how I'm using the word habit. A discipline is something

that you intentionally go to. It's exercise, drinking water, eating well. You don't always want to do it, but you know why you're doing it, and you know it's important, and you go back to it, and you get the delight out of it when you involve yourself in it. So we're building those disciplines. And today, this current series is the second in four weeks. Last week was talking to God. This week we'll be talking with God. Next week we'll be listening to God, and the final week will be being with God. Say again? Oh, you were telling me. That's good. Thank you. And that's kind of a progression. Yeah, yeah, that's right. We are here. We're at week two. That's kind of a progression. The child learns to talk. Later, you learn to communicate back and forth more clearly.

Obviously, as an adult, you must learn the maturity of listening well, and eventually, with your spouse, you're just there together, and you communicate clearly through presence. And that is a progression. They're not necessarily linear. You don't have to go through each progression with God, but we're going to tackle them linearly, and today we're talking about how to talk with God. If we look at Luke 11, Jesus, this is what we covered last week, Jesus' disciples saw him praying and said, Lord, teach us to pray, just like John taught his disciples to pray. We want to know how you do that. And he said, Well, when you pray, say this, Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread. Forgive us our sins as we forgive each other and lead us not into temptation.

And then he said to them, Which one of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, friend, lend me three loaves? For a friend of mine has arrived on a journey and I have nothing to set before him. And he'll answer him, Don't bother me. The door is shut and my children are with me in bed. I can't get up and give you anything. The word there is actually locked up. I find it interesting that they had door locks at the turn of the millennium. But anyway, it's a longstanding habit. I can't get up and give you anything. I tell you, though, he'll not get up and give me anything because he's a friend, but because of his impudence, because of his persistence, he will rise and give him

whatever he needs. And I tell you, Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be over. Open to you. For everyone who asks, receives. Everyone who seeks, finds. To anyone who knocks, it will be opened. What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish, give him a serpent? Or if he asks for an egg, give him a scorpion. If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly father give Holy Spirit to those who ask him? That's the progression. So he just told his disciples, When you pray, pray in this very scripted way. And oh, by the way, I know you're going to just eventually get into conversation with God.

So when you do, be persistent and expect a quality relationship. Don't expect a salesman relationship, you know, where you're having to game him or he's gaming you or you're being insincere with one another, right? We're going to be persistent with someone who wants to talk to you. I would like to say, to understand what he said there clearly, he just said, you who are evil, he called his listeners evil. That's harsh. And we need a perspective on Jesus' worldview to understand, to not be sidetracked and get stuck in some sort of quagmire of personal condemnation about being evil. So just a quick side note, when Jesus repeats this in Matthew in the Sermon on the Mount, it's listed in an extended format there, he says, the word in Greek is pony ray and in the Lord's Prayer,

he has just said, deliver us from evil and then you who are evil, right? So that's an interesting juxtaposition, right? It's not like we're exempted from the evil and need deliverance, right? But let's look at the, just a quick survey within the Sermon on the Mount, here are the things that Jesus said were evil, okay? The things that we worry about every day in 634, the things that we're tempted by and from which we need to be delivered there in the Lord's Prayer, evil. The eye that brings darkness into the soul is, he calls that evil, right? When we prevaricate with our answers, don't look at our yes, be yes, that's an evil. He uses the same word for that. Lies people tell about us, that one's easy to believe, we're on board, that's evil, right?

People who slap you, yeah, we don't like that. And 545, people all over the world on whom God sends the sun and the rain without discrimination, right? You who are evil. And in verse 7 here, I'm sorry, in 17, the fruits of a corrupted tree are evil. And right after that, his listeners, you who are listening to me, the people who care deeply for your children, evil, right? So he's talking about us as the fruits of a corrupted tree, right? We're living in a corrupted world and there are all these evils that we're just soaked in. We're a corrupted image of God. Persistence then here is the lesson, not the evil, right? We are persistent. He's offering to take the bad growth from a bad tree and graft it, his listeners, into the kingdom as disciples.

That's what he's talking about. And in prayer, recognizing evil is just stripping away that facade and seeing ourselves as he does, as an image of him corrupted by sin and its consequences. So we need to recognize that in ourselves. We have his image and it's been corrupted, right? Seeing ourselves as we should will focus us not on the indignity of being called corrupted or evil but on the magnificent grace of God and it should pull us toward him in gratitude and worship, okay? Persistent worship. Come back and ask again. Gratitude is, we're going to talk about four things today. There are four ways that when we approach God, this is not essentially biblical by the way. There's no list of four ways to pray but it's observable. We speak in gratitude. We talk to God

about what's good and what we appreciate. We lament. We talk to him about what's evil in our life and the world around us. We make petitions that God on our behalf would fulfill his promises and overcome that evil and intercession. We do the same thing on other people's behalf. Both of those are commanded by Jesus of his disciples. If you want to read more didactically, again, this is something to experience not to talk about. I'm just going to list three books here that are really useful to you. They're all called creatively prayer because that's what they're about. The book Prayer by Tim Keller I think you'll find very useful. I'm going to reference that a lot today. Praying Like Monks, Living Like Fools is one that Ryan recommends. He actually gave that to me. It has some excellent

points in it. The one that everyone else quotes when they're making theirs is Richard Foster's book fittingly called Prayer. If you want to read more later, go for those. Today, I would like to point out that while there's lots written about it and there's lots of categories and lots of things that are said you should and shouldn't do, there's really no condemnation here because there's no strict set of rules. Christ gave us a couple of six in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, don't pray proudly. Don't let other people see you. Don't just repeat meaningless words. A couple of basic principles and then he just gives us examples of how to pray. The first one being the Lord's Prayer. But we also see in the Old Testament they're given copious rules of how to approach God

through the priest and the ceremonies you have to use. But then we see the example. That's all said in Exodus. And then we see the example in 1 Samuel of Hannah just in tears and distress going up to the fence of the tabernacle and just muttering so that it came out of her. A prayer to God for help. She was barren and he was having trouble at home and she was just distraught and she just poured it out to God and she tells the priest and God hears her and answers her prayer. So even in the Old Testament with all those rules about how to approach God he wanted us to come talk to him. He responded to those who came and poured out their heart to him. In the New Testament of course there's lots of examples

but the most notable is in Luke 18 Jesus tells the parable of the tax collector and the Pharisee. The Pharisee stands he proclaims he draws attention to what he's done and the tax collector who's not lived a righteous life is bowed in the corner won't raise his eyes to God and says have mercy on me a sinner. He's pouring out sincerely from his heart and he's observing the one rule that Jesus gave which is don't stand proudly when you pray. So with very limited guidance we're just asked to come before God in sincerity. That's what prayer is.

So the first so do this so we need to make prayer a steady practice and we need to talk with God in sincerity and humility. So everybody here who has a pen or a phone take out your phone and make yourself an appointment. Okay? It could be five minutes at five o'clock on Sunday, Saturday, Tuesday morning. It could be an hour on Thursday night but make your phone with God. Write it on your sheet paper and find a time that's a hole in your schedule and just make it recurring. Hit the recurring button. I don't see many of you doing it. You need to get your phones out. This is sincere. We're starting a practice of prayer beyond what you currently do. So create a time to sit and sincerely talk with God and if it's just

five minutes that's okay. It's a start. Okay? When you go to God in prayer one of the first things that's going to come up is gratitude. So prayer is our humble response to the inconceivable surprise of living Abraham Heschel says. Right? Just the gratitude that pours out of you that you're able to come and approach God is an amazing thing which will dominate our prayer life and actually activate it and bring it to life. When we say and we've said things like this I need a God that understands me I think that radically undervalues the time that we're spending with the creator of the universe. It's a sort of narcissism that assumes that if you're not me you can't understand where I'm coming from you can't think things my way and my way is the important way

to see things. Right? Probably means at that point that you don't really believe that God is who he says he is and that he's there meeting with you. Right? You're listening there to what? You're not talking to God you're kind of praying with yourself. Right? That always takes me back to the quote by Bonhoeffer Dietrich Bonhoeffer which I've probably read five times from stage and here comes the sixth. Why is it so often easier for us to confess our sins to God than to a brother? Why would it be easier to confess to God than to a brother? God is holy and sinless. He's a judge just judge of evil and the enemy of disobedience but a brother is as sinful as we are. He knows from his own experience the dark night of secret sin.

Why should we not find it easier to go to a brother than to the holy God? Anyone? We must ask ourselves whether we have not been often deceiving ourselves and confessing our sins not to God but to ourselves and granting ourselves absolution. Right? If we feel no gratitude in the presence of God for his great bounty to us who has forgiven the weight of our sin it's entirely possible we may have been received nothing of God because we didn't actually ask anything of God we're told in James ask and you shall receive right? Jesus just said ask and you'll receive seek and you'll find you have not because you asked not in James excuse me and we maybe have not because we asked ourselves we didn't actually go meet God honestly and openly we must meet

him we must talk to him sincerely as the God of the universe in prayer gratitude is the center of prayer it's the soul of our relationship and generosity gratitude for God's generosity is at the center of God's nature John says 316 for God so loved the world that he gave to us Romans 5 8 while we were still sinners God showed his love to us by sending his son for us Galatians God gave himself for our sins so that he might rescue us from this present age of evil so our gratitude is the primary way the first way we relate to God we recognize with gratitude who he is and what he's done for us one way to measure your spiritual maturity is how natural and how full that gratitude is it overflowing to others

Christians don't stand erect in pride pride is a sin we stand erect in wonder and gratitude at the world God's given around us like a new toddler that's just amazed at everything he sees that should be the motivation that keeps you alive to the world and that should overflow in prayer the second thing then is lament we are not grateful for everything that happens to us lament is equal present in equal measure in the Bible with gratitude obviously the entire book of Job is someone dealing with tragedy and lamenting it the book of Lamentations is about lamenting it's actually about a guy who's in a city that's being besieged and he's watching the destruction around him and the devastation of war and lamenting it to God it's a tragic tragic book of poetry Psalms two thirds of

the Psalms are laments an example an example of course is Psalm 22 where David says my God my God why have you forsaken me why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning my God I cry by day but you don't answer and by night I find no rest and yet you're holy I'm poured out like water and all my bones are out of a joint and my heart is like wax and it's melted within my breast and my strength is dried up like a potsherd and my tongue sticks in my jaws you lay me in the dust of death for dogs encompass me and the company of evildoers encircles me they've pierced my hands and my feet I can count all my bones they stare and gloat over me

and divide my garments among them and for my clothing they cast lots but you Lord don't be far off you my Lord come quickly to my aid he is distressed and Christ repeats this lament from the cross right if you're not clear that it's okay to lament your sufferings to God Christ did it David did it in the Old Testament I would encourage you to find if you have suffering in your life and you don't know how to present it to God I would encourage you to go find there's a number of people that have really exemplified it well and have written books about it Johnny Erickson Tata who I had the privilege of meeting some time back I was really impressed more when I met her than I had been in reading her but

what I was impressed by was the depth of what she'd gone through what she had to lament you read her writings and it's all about overcoming the problems but when you meet her she's got the problems right she's a quadriplegic who's lived her life trying to spread thanks and praise to God which is really amazing I would recommend Elizabeth Elliott whose family was murdered she was a missionary her family was murdered and she stayed with the tribe that murdered her family and learned how to suffer with God in prayer until you saw his kingdom grow it's an amazing thing someone else who I just ran into recently Elizabeth Mitchell she wrote a book called Journey from the Heart she went through a difficult loss of a child after extended medical crisis and she talks about

prayer in her book and how she came to learn to pray more and how she grew closer to God through this crisis she said a couple of things that I would not have known when the sun is shining you develop the spiritual habit she said for which you can draw in the dark when you worship in the dark you have to take the dark cloud as a cue a cue to enter into prayer not as a harbinger of the danger and you must recognize as Psalm 139 tells us it admits the darkness but it challenges the feeling of isolation it says if I make my bed in hell you're there it's David saying I can't get away from you right and she felt like she was walking through hell for years and learned that he

was still there it feels horrible but it's not isolated what you have to understand she said is don't expect the conversation to go the same way when your mind is not functioning the same way right I knew God I met him things were wonderful and then I went through this terrible time and he seemed so different yeah that's that's your perception right of course he's there for you when you walk through hell he's there I would encourage you to read more of those people Elizabeth Mitchell's a good example this is probably the most easily understood of all the prayers that naturally flow out of us when we're suffering we just cry out for help you don't need a lot of explanation of why to do it but we do need explanation of how to do

it from people who've been through it and explanation we need freedom to let loose and do it I know a lot of us are scared to really express to God the ugliness within us and you should he's a big boy right he can take care of himself my personal favorite book on prayer and it's not actually about prayer I learned more from it and I don't necessarily recommend it to you as a book on prayer but it meant a lot to me it's Till We Have Faces by C.S. Lewis it's a novel it's fiction and in this story an ancient queen who is ugly and forced into a terrible life puts heavy veils over her face and treats the world around her savagely so that she can rise to the top despite how badly she's

treated right and she spends her whole life writing a grievance against the gods for putting her through this right and then at one point toward the end of the book she has the opportunity to go meet face to face with them and she rips off the veil and releases her complaint and in doing so finally can see herself as God sees her and understand her complaint from his perspective right and it's that moment of clarity that comes from releasing your true anger that allows you to not hide yourself from God anymore and so connect with him lament is exceptionally important if you find prayers boring or ineffective during times of crisis it may be because you're not really letting loose like that you're not taking off the veil C.S. Lewis said we're to lay bare

before God what's in us not what ought to be in us lament is an emotionally healthy way of processing pain with God we complain to God and you know do that maybe instead of to your spouse and definitely instead of social media you put it on social media out of context to sit there forever and people to react to and get the wrong perspective from and that now defines you to some people don't do that right talk to God glean glean some of his perspective and Voskamp said lament is a cry of belief in a good God you wouldn't cry out if you didn't believe he was there you wouldn't ask for help if you didn't think he was good a God who has his ear to our hearts a God who transfigures the ugly

into the beautiful we must allow for this possibility theologically if it's not your theology that you can scream at God knowing that his majesty knowing his sovereignty knowing that it's inappropriate you need to reexamine you need to expand your theology and read through the Bible the Bible is full of lament okay so we need to make a prayer of lament a steady practice in your scheduled appointment that you made right and you made it right you took out your phone and did it you need to write down one thing that you're actually grateful for in the world around you note that we're going to make an agenda for your meeting with God right in this meeting that you have you're going to note a thing that you're grateful for and you're going to follow that

with a lament because your life is not perfect and there is something that you're you feel tragedy in so you need to note that and you need to talk to God about the gratitude and the lament okay I don't see too many people writing it down you need to write it down so you don't forget it you need an agenda so the meeting is productive right all right people who've sat through my agendas are all right the third thing we do when we go to God then is it comes very naturally after the lament is a petition oh God I'm in misery please help right at the end of Psalm 22 David was saying don't be

this is honest to God truth the people in the room I grew up in a congregation where prayer was kind of a performance art and the people in the room were questioning if they were getting off base and they were doing it with absolute sincerity but it does feel a little ridiculous to argue about prayer in a prayer meeting right and this one cantankerous old lady who I recognize now is probably the age I am now but she seemed ancient at the time she got up and quoted this doggerel poem and sat down and it was the end of the conversation it was kind of funny so here's what she quoted the proper way for a man to pray says Deacon Lemuel Keyes and the only proper attitude is down upon his knees no I

should say the way the pray said Reverend Dr. Wise is standing straight with outstretched arms and wrapped and upturned eyes oh no no no said Alder Slow such that posture is too proud a man should pray with eyes fast closed and head contritely bowed no last year I fell in Hodgkin's well head first said Cyrus Brown with both my feet a sticking up and my head pointing down and I made a prayer right then and there best prayer I ever said the praying is prayer I ever did pray is standing there on my head so um sincerity right there is nothing in which we are quite so sincere as our desire for help all right when we have a need and we can express it that comes from the gut there's not a lot of

pretension there right and it's a quick it does two things one is it gives us a rapid way to be clear and honest with God right and that's good we should establish that connection and carry on that's not a bad thing to go and ask him for things he says ask him for things um Charles Spurgeon says whether we like it or not asking is the rule of the kingdom Christ said ask and you'll be given to you what do want me to do he said to the blind man right he wants us to ask him for stuff um the other thing prayer does asking does is it establishes the nature of our relationship how many people do you actually go to and ask for things right very few you go to people that you have some kind of relationship with and you think there might be some basis for them giving

admitting that you have a relationship with God and some level of intimacy when you go ask from him I don't know if you considered that but it's true we're not just worrying in God's general direction in the New Testament Jesus said let this cup pass from me he really meant that right he was saying is there another way we can do this nevertheless not my will but yours be

different way that it's not so painful that's a real question again I go back to Hannah in the Old Testament she was really deeply in need of a child for her way of life right and she asked God for it directly asking in Jesus name is something we do because he commanded us to but it's not you know a rote if you say in Jesus name at the end

let's see Jesus says the words I say to you I don't speak on my own authority but the father who dwells in me does this his works believe me that I'm in the father and the father is in me or else believe on account of the works themselves so he's talking about works that prove the power of God right that he's been able to do truly truly I say to you whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do and greater works than these will he do because I'm going to the father whatever you ask in my name this I will do he's talking about that in the context of building the kingdom and the works done to build the kingdom right that the father whatever you ask my name I'll do

that the father may be glorified in the son so he's going to do things works in the kingdom so that the son and the father will be glorified if you love me keep my commandments and I'll ask the father abide in me I'm skipping forward into chapter 15 abide in me and I in you the branch can't bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine neither can you unless you abide in me stay in me stay in me I'm the vine you're the branches whoever abides in me and I in him it's he that bears much fruit for me you can do nothing if anyone again jumping forward you did not choose me but I chose you and I appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and your fruit should abide

so whatever you ask of the father in my name he may give it to you these things I've commanded you so that you love one other why would the father give you whatever you ask for so that the kingdom is built when we ask something in Jesus name it's like we're saying I'm with him right this is the thing we're doing on our enterprise together when we abide in we were the corrupted fruit of a tree that's been grafted into the vine that's what it just said there if you are grafted into me and now we're growing his fruit through us as his sap metaphorically runs through our limb and rejuvenates us and makes us fruitful when we ask for the good of the kingdom planted here on earth in which we're being discipled that

is when he will give us what we want and when you're in close community with him you're going to be asking for things that he would want prayer of petition is exemplification of your alignment with Christ when you ask in Jesus name you're explicitly saying your alignment with Christ when we ask for

alignment through which the miracles of God flow and I will also note this was J.R. Gamcomer who put together this curriculum we're using he says something very useful which is from Moses to Paul through the whole of the Bible people don't pray about their problems directly they pray about God's promises that can be applied to their problems right they call on God to do what he said he would do it he desires to replace the evil in the world with good and so when David is in Psalm 22 crying out I'm beset he's saying please fulfill what you said you would do and save me who I'm committed to you right so when you make petition make petition knowing he's holy God does that mean however you should fear to approach him without a research

list of vetted concerned proven things that you know to be in line with his promises well that's it's not a bad idea to you know do your homework and make sure of that but feel free to just yell from the gut right he wants to connect with you as you mature the hope is that you'll be more and more in sync with him we're told though to be anxious for nothing but by everything in everything by prayer and supplication supplication is begging right with thanksgiving which is the first thing we're going to do at our meeting make our request known unto God and the peace of God that passes all understanding will guard your hearts and minds in the does that say and you'll get what you want no it says he will give you

peace he will bring you into green pastures as it were in Psalm 23 he will guide you how there's a famous quote from a number of people that prayer doesn't change God it changes me I've definitely experienced that I've experienced praying and finding myself changed so that I no longer needed that he gave me the peace right I have experienced praying and God fulfilled what I asked for he

God absolutely answers prayer it may be to change what you want but that's why you need to ask him for it you need to get it on the table be honest with him and let him deal with you on it okay so in your meeting right we need to make a prayer petition part of our study practice don't be proud don't keep a distance don't live in the disbelief that God won't do this it won't really happen abide in him and ask from him that you might receive so you've written down something you're grateful for you've written down a thing that you're lamenting you need to write down a thing or things it doesn't have to be one that you really need him to make happen right that you need from him and as you do it

lastly we come to intercession this is asking God to fulfill his promises to overcome evil with good to the others in our life Foster says intercession is priestly work it's a form of love it's carrying another person's pain into God's healing light this is most readily familiar to us with our kids right or maybe our parents I you see your kid driving close to the edge of a cliff there's a chance he might just drive off and not go over the edge you know could be fine but as parents we're distraught for his well being or her well being I have all boys so they're all he's we're distraught for his well being we know that he doesn't recognize the danger that he's up against and so we pray for him we intercede for him

we pray that God would enlighten him and if you can't help him understand it at least let him turn the car away from the cliff right in the New Testament Christ interceded for others when he said Father forgive them they don't know what they do literally praying for his enemies I've struggled in my life I find that I can very well at the level of maturity where I can see somebody who is opposing me and I can understand where they're coming through what they're going through I can empathize with them I can pray for them come to you know regard them kindly and pray for them and that's good you should absolutely do that David clearly prays for his enemies who are currently his enemies right Jesus on the cross he said they don't know

what they're doing they are my enemy they're physically killing me please forgive them right you need to get to the point where you can recognize them as your enemy and still love them that's a difficulty right I found in my life it's absolutely true that you cannot pray for one somebody sincerely and have ought against them at the same time right I cannot wish you the worst and pray for you with my whole heart so praying for them is essential to me even in small things somebody disappoints your expectations and you get your dander up pray for them immediately right and you will find probably it's you that changes but intercession on their behalf is important in the Old Testament of course we see Moses holding up his arms in intercession at the battle in

Exodus 17 Abraham interceded with God to save the life of Lot it's always looking out trying to save those but we need Jesus worldview as we approach intercession again Jesus worldview is that humanity is besieged by evil forces right this is his world and there's evil in it and Jesus as a Savior has come to liberate occupied territory within the kingdom of God and prayer is how we join forces with him if that sounds too tenuous you're not recognizing the significance of prayer right it's not I can't do anything I might as well just throw up a prayer it's significant it's prayer it's joining with God in a mysterious way that he actually does Dallas Willard I'll say we have an insidious undercurrent of determinism in our culture that makes it very difficult to really

hold on to the idea that prayer can make a difference particularly intercessory prayer to pray in Jesus name we have to come to believe that our prayers actually make a difference in what does or does not happen Dallas Willard God's response to our prayers is not a charade he does not pretend that he is answering our prayer when he is only doing what he is going to do anyway our requests really do make a difference in what God does or doesn't do the idea that everything would happen exactly as it does regardless of whether we're praying or not is a specter that haunts the minds of those who sincerely profess belief in God it makes prayer psychologically impossible and replaces it with a dead ritual at best of course that is not the biblical idea

of prayer nor is it the idea of people for whom prayer is a vital part of their life when you go in your scheduled meeting obviously you need to add I'm going to ask you to add a person to that that your heart is crying out for you must believe that God is here and concerned with the evil in their life and wants your prayers for them in some way God has entrusted a level of management of the world to his sons and daughters those who carry his image and that's one of the ways we steward our task and if you're highly reformed and have trouble with that I'm just going to quote R.C. Sproul for you okay the prayer of people is one of the means God uses to bring things to pass in

the world so if you ask me whether prayer changes things I answer an unhesitating yes from Dr. Sproul okay from all sides of Christianity however you understand God's sovereignty prayer changes things and prayers for others is important and Christ asked us to do it you can't sincerely pray for someone and sincerely wish the meal at the same time so add to your agenda take a moment and add a name at least or a situation to your agenda that you're going to meet with God that you're going to pray for okay because this needs to be a steady practice a recurring practice that you do these four things you show your gratitude you express your lament you make a petition you intercede for others and you do this all in the naked sincerity that you believe

God can change things the naked sincerity is what changes things Tim Keller God's the only person from whom you can hide nothing before him you will unavoidably come to see yourself in a new unique light prayer therefore leads to a self knowledge that is impossible to achieve in any other way and as C.S. Lewis said it's in the process of being worship that God communicates himself to men it is that frightening honesty which will move our prayer life from duty to delight we said at the

discipline and it's going to thrive when it's a delight in your life how do you get it to be a delight frightening naked honesty sincerity no games we go to God and say how do I know you'll do what you say the question is how do I know that I'm going to am I presenting myself honestly why would you someone who knows your innermost thoughts the passage Donna read before you

telling us to live in victory and obedience victory over our delusions our sense of self that holds us down and that freedom is in his laws and that's hard to remember but again I challenge you to think about your kids and your parents you may remember when you were a kid you sometimes didn't do what your parents said and you didn't do it because you knew they might disagree with your preferences you wanted to do something and you knew they would make it difficult and so you might not have been wholly honest right it's hard to rebel against a set of rules God's law and live at the same time in communion with him right and we do this because we believe that we're free when we get to do what we want and that is ironically not true slowly

had been directing us toward a way of life that brought the joy and the freedom that we'd been longing for right they'd been telling us how to stay away from the cliff the same thing is analogous to God spending that daily time with him gives us the relationship which turns our duty to delight it allows us to accept his laws as the gifts they are in Psalm 1 we can focus on them day and night and meditate in them his yoke is easy his burden is light and it feels like giving up a desire that we're struggling for will be the greatest loss we've ever had but when we get to know him in prayer steady consistent discipline of prayer we realize that like the prodigal son's father how much he's longing and waiting for us to come

God communicates himself to man that's why we pray and that's why I want you guys to make an appointment make it recurring do it okay there's not an example for this kind of prayer that's the point it's you talking to God but I'm going to read what we're going to close the service I'm going to read you Psalm 51 which is again a Psalm of David where he is raw as you find in the Bible about a sin that he's committed adultery he's committed murder he's been caught and he's confessing holy to God in a song that was sung in the temple right he let everybody know he just blasted out the reality of his situation and I want you to think through your life and the honesty that you need to have with God as

time and inclination you can either stay in your seat or maybe come forward and just spend time in prayer we have an hour before the Spanish church gets here you can spend five minutes or up to an hour if you need to pick up your kids or go somewhere just quietly go out the back leave the lobby doors closed and let the people who want to pray pray some of the elders will come forward if you need somebody to pray with okay so I'm going to read Psalm 51 and then I want us to enter into a time of prayer this morning okay David have mercy on me oh God according to your steadfast love according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgression wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my

sin for I know my transgression and my sin is ever before me and against you you only have I sinned and done what's evil in your sides so that you're justified in your words and blameless in your judgment behold I was brought forth in in sin did my mother conceive me behold you delight in truth in the inward being you teach me wisdom in my secret heart purge me with hyssop and I shall be clean wash me and I'll be whiter than snow let me hear joy and gladness let the bones that you have broken rejoice hide your face from my sins and blot out my in in me create in me a clean heart oh God and renew a right

your way and sinners will return to you deliver me from blood guiltiness oh God oh God of my salvation and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness oh Lord open my lips and my mouth will declare your praise for you will not delight in sacrifice or I would give it you'll not be pleased with a burnt offering the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit a broken and contrite heart oh God you will not despise Father God I pray that everybody in this room would come to a new level of intimacy with you that we would take the time to meet you we would make it a discipline a daily discipline to tell you our innermost hearts to come to know you and to come to worship you in prayer so that you can build your character within

God forgive us for our sins have mercy on those in our lives that need you help us through our times of difficulty and crisis and thank you for all that you've done for us bring us together and send your son Lord in Jesus name amen if you'd like to come forward and pray do if you need to leave please go quietly stay go make sure go go go Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
