SOLITUDE: Encounter with Our Self
2025-02-17
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_mBmrmqr_bA

and help us give you that space to work on us so that we can become more like you. Please bless Nick and have him say the things you want him to say, God, and help open our ears so that we hear the things we really need to hear. And give us patience with ourselves and each other as we go through this practice. Thank you for all that you do for us and the promises you keep, even when we don't deserve it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Solitude is not a private, therapeutic place. Rather, it is the place of conversion. The place where the old self dies and the new self is born. Solitude is the furnace of transformation.

Without solitude, we remain victims of our society and continue to be entangled in the illusion of the false self. Solitude is the place of the great struggle and the great encounter. Wow. Am I on? Am I on? Awesome. Okay. let's just sit here for a moment and let's, I just want us to reflect briefly just on the songs that we sang and if you can remember any of the lyrics. And so I don't know if that was strategic in choosing these songs, but this is the, you couldn't have chosen better songs to walk into what it means to walk into solitude. Especially when we look at our, let's just sit here and pause for a moment in silent prayer as a, before we enter into today's teaching. Jesus, I pray that you would reveal everything that needs to be revealed today and that we would have eyes to see and ears to hear.

Holy Spirit, we bless you in your name. Amen. So in the fall of 2020, we were sort of in a, as a globe, as a collective, you know, not even just the body of Christ, the entire world were in a pandemic. And then as I later began to see it as a forced time of solitude. And I had been on a journey of what Martin Laird titled his outstanding book called Into the Silent Land, meaning that the inward journey of prayer and identity had taken center stage. Fast forward nine months from that into May of 2021, and I walked into a three-day experience that was incredibly challenging. It was life-giving and deeply impactful, and it also left me with a deep desire for more. Just down the road from here, off Route 7, there's, nestled off the Shenandoah River, a couple hundred yards, is a Trappist monastery called Holy Cross Abbey.

And this was, for me, the first time I would go on a silent retreat. No phones, no talking. I did take a Bible and a book, although those things, reading is not preferred. What I would learn in this very short three days is that I talk entirely too much, I read more than I sit and just be with God, and I definitely do not get enough sleep. The point or goal of a silent retreat is to remove distractions, and some call it entering into the desert. The desert is a place where we shed things. And think of Jesus. Jesus entered the desert after he was baptized, or think of Moses or Elijah. Each have stories of where they entered a desert at a pivotal time in their life, and they didn't go there to gain something.

The desert doesn't teach us things like acquiring more knowledge by reading or listening to a podcast or some new cool TED talk. The desert teaches us by subtraction, by taking away our props, our distractions, leaving our souls naked and exposed and raw. The truth is, is that we're all really naked and exposed before the Lord. We just distract ourselves with fig leaves, thinking that we're hiding, when we merely are covering up our own selves. Henry Nguyen, in his outstanding book, The Way of the Heart, he says this, In solitude is not a private, therapeutic place. Rather, it's a place of conversation. The place where the old self goes to die, and the new self is born. The place where the emergence of the new man or the new woman occurs. In solitude, I get rid of the scaffolding.

I have no friends to talk with. I have no telephone calls to make. I have no meetings to attend. No music to entertain. No books to distract. Just me. Naked, vulnerable, weak, sinful, deprived, broken. Nothing. It is in this nothingness that I have to come face. I have to face my solitude, a nothingness so dreadful that everything in me wants to run to my friends, my work, my distractions. Solitude is the furnace of transformation. The place of great struggle and great encounter. The struggle against the compulsion of the false self. Henry absolutely nails the reality of what solitude is. It's the encounter with the loving God who offers himself as the substance of the new self. Think of Ephesians 4, 24, where Paul says, Last week, you started here the solitude practice. Next week, you're going to walk into an encounter with your enemy.

The week after that, when it closes, you're going to walk into an encounter with our God. But today, we're going to do a really hard one, and that's encounter with ourself. The first thing you do when you go into solitude, rather than feeling happy or at peace, the first thing that happens, as Father Thomas Keating sometimes calls, the unfolding of our unconscious. Which is a really fancy word of saying that whatever is down must come up. From the depths of ourselves to surface in our heart. And we begin to feel things so deep and so buried that we're not really sure or ready for some things that we've buried. Am I alone in burying things deep within me? Okay, that's just between my wife and I. Here's a few common things that come up when you go into solitude.

If you're taking notes, the first thing is exhaustion. Often, the first thing you feel is just tired. Some call it a crash. It's like you've been running on adrenaline, and then all of a sudden, everything runs out, and even in your bones, you feel this deep sense of weariness. In the first 30 minutes of my silent retreat, I passed right out. And then over the next day, I would nap eight or nine more times. Which really, I started to shame myself. Like, come on, man, focus up. Like, you can do better than this. Like, what are you doing? And after I got through all the guilt and the shame, my perspective became more clear in that what I really needed was rest. That I pushed myself incredibly too hard. You see, because rest is an essential component in our discipleship to Jesus.

Every one of us in this room, regardless of where you are in life, you're incredibly good at overscheduling yourself. I am primary guilt of that. The Lord is reteaching me rest in this season. It feels unfortunate to have to relearn these things, but it is a deep necessity for our longevity and our journey with Jesus. Think of, like, tiredness on, like, a spectrum, okay? One side is a good tired. You worked a long week. Yet it was very productive. You feel really good. You made the world a better place. You were patient with others and your kids. You gave your life away healthfully. And you prepared to rest at the end of the week and maybe even you Sabbathed. I'm not going to ask anybody to raise hands where you are on the spectrum. The second one is, then there's an unhealthy tired, where I find myself regularly,

where you didn't sleep enough, high stress, low margin. It was manageable, but let's be straight. You were on the edge for most of the week. And then there's the dangerous kind of tired, where you lost touch with your soul and God, making you easy pick off for temptation. Where would you find yourself on the spectrum? If you're good tired, rest can keep you healthy. If you're unhealthy tired, rest can get you back to being healthy. But if you're in a dangerous space of tiredness, it can expose a need for some serious change. I've been finding myself very unhealthily tired recently, and I'm learning to rest again, which is how I started with a forced solitude versus an intentional solitude. It was really easy to do when we were forced to do stuff. It makes it more incredibly challenging when you have to do it intentionally.

The second thing that comes up when you go into solitude is fear. Often I find my mind racing and worrying about a thousand different things, which normally leads to the prolonged challenge of having a ping pong match with God in my mind. Bouncing back and forth between things, not sitting down. Certainly my focus is off because fear has reared its ugly head, and I just keep getting stuck in this ping pong match. The third thing that comes up is sadness. I don't want to sound bleak, but underneath everything in life is the kind of sadness. Think about it like this. Even the moments of happiness, like a graduation or a wedding, the birth of a child, all those come with a note of sadness. Like it's the graduation. Oh, well, I'm going to be missing my friends

because I won't see them every day in high school anymore because now I've graduated. There's notes of sadness that stick around. Sorrow and joy intermix in this life and whether we see it or not. And when you go into solitude, this is a prime time for sadness to well up inside of you. It's like almost your soul has been waiting to grieve. And it's best to just sit back, sit with God, and let these things pass through you. It's not always gray clouds and doom. The upside is when you let yourself feel sadness, it often gives way to joy, but it might take time. The fourth thing that comes up is anger. All the contemplatives write about this, about how in quiet prayer, one of the major challenges that people are faced with is all your hurts come up.

You're left by yourself. You're left to think. You're left to, you know, yourself. And the things that are deep, like I said in the beginning, start to well up. And sometimes there's, you'll find that you start having those fake conversations with yourself. And you talk about all the things, that person that wronged you or cut you off or any type of bitterness that might be hanging around. Occasionally, you know, I find myself ruminating on these things. And what I've come to find out is perhaps maybe I haven't forgiven that person that I'm having that fake conversation with. Because if I've truly forgiven them, then I'm not gonna have a fake conversation arguing my point with somebody that's not even there or perhaps not even on this earth anymore. The fifth thing, the fifth emotion that comes up is shame.

When we're stripped down, naked and exposed, who we are really comes through. With other people, we can perform, we can project an image, we can attempt to control the narrative or the perspective that people have of us. We can even fool ourselves to an extent into thinking that we're hiding because we're pretty good at it. Like I said in the beginning, we tend to hide behind fig leaves. But in solitude, there's nowhere to hide. It's you, the good, the bad, the ugly, all laid bare before a holy God. We often feel a sense, a profound sense of our deep need for salvation. If I could reduce all this into one word, I would call it pain. In solitude, we encounter pain. Existential philosopher Siren Korkagard says that there's two types of people in the world.

There are those that are in despair and know it and those that are in despair and don't know it. Inside all of us is a deep well of pain, sometimes stored up only to be released at a church picnic or a family reunion. Remember, in solitude, what goes down must come up. No matter how extroverted you are or sunny your disposition or robust your faith, there's pain. You might be able to mask it better, but there's pain. Why are we touching on this subject? Why would we stir up dormant pain in our lives? Because things can leak. Hopefully, not like toxic pollution on everyone around us, but if we're being honest, those who are closest to us often get the best and worst of us and we can leak things out. To get free from something,

we must face the thing. One of our biggest issues facing our culture today is distractions. More so, I think, than in the past, but it's really our cultural moment. We have our distractions of our day, not some of the distractions that when early contemplatives were writing about this in the third century, their distractions were incredibly different, but they're probably close to the same. We do a good job of not feeling pain. We do a good job of not talking about our pain. And I'm not talking about taking painkillers because you have a broken leg. I'm talking about emotional pain that we choose to hide from. We inoculate ourselves with our distractions of choice, food, alcohol, work, travel, social media, internet. Neil Postman wrote a book in 1985 that's called Amusing Ourselves to Death, calling attention to our cultural obsession

with entertainment, bringing me to the conclusion that we lack the ability to be bored. For those of us who were raised in the 80s and 90s, I know that's only a few of us in this room, but my mom and dad were regularly saying, if you're bored, go outside. If you're bored, go outside. We had a Nintendo. We had a, that was regular Nintendo days. That wasn't Super Nintendo yet, okay? You know? We weren't allowed to just sit there and play the Nintendo. We had to go outside if we were bored because my parents were trying to teach us to sit in your boredom. We don't do that now. We inoculate ourselves into whatever takes away our, whatever we are focusing on. I'm sure if that book was written today, it would be slightly different yet the same.

The only difference would be the smartphone. A medical journal, a medical journal calls the smartphone a pacifier, drawing similarities between a toddler using a pacifier and adult using a smartphone that we don't grow through the thing because we're pacifying something. We're choosing to do this over actually working through pain. We're taught to numb our pain. I'm not gonna talk about what my parents rubbed on my gums when I was teething because this isn't the setting for that. But the truth is, is that we try to inoculate pain. We don't wanna feel pain because pain hurts. It hurts, but we must learn to face it. So how do we do this? How do we do this? First, we have to surrender to Jesus. We have to become a disciple or is practicing the way he uses all the time

to be an apprentice. After that, we have to lay our lives down and follow him even to the garden of Gethsemane. Everyone turn to Matthew 26. Some of you are probably thinking, man, we took the long road to get to some Scripture today. Like, what are we doing here? You're gonna see why in a minute, why we took the long road to get set up to get there. This portion of Scripture probably takes place just a few hours before Jesus' betrayal, arrest, trial, torture, and then a few days later his ultimate death on the cross. I'm gonna be reading from the New American Standard starting in verse 36 of chapter 26. Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane and he said to his disciples, sit here while I go over there to pray.

And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee and began to be grieved and distressed. Then he said to them, my soul is deeply grieved to the point of death. Remain here and keep watch with me. And he went a little beyond them, fell on his face and prayed saying, Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Not as I will, but as you will. In Luke's version of this story he uses the word Jesus went out as usual. That can also be translated as was his custom. Meaning that this was a personal place for Jesus. This is a place that became a place that he runs to sort of quietly. And you may, some of you may have that. You may run to the mountains. You may sit

on your back porch. You have a place that is sort of your custom. You might even have a ritual. You have a Bible that you bring with you, a journal, you know, maybe some worship music. You have your place. This was Jesus' personal custom that he went to and he went to often. Some translations also say that he was full of sorrow and deeply troubled. I couldn't imagine the pain that Jesus was really feeling in this moment. But what did he do? We're gonna discover that here in a few minutes. Notice how peace and happiness weren't the words to describe how Jesus was feeling. He was sorrowful and troubled. The pain that he felt in this moment was also even to the point of death. There's probably a few of you in this room that could be

feeling pain right now even to the point of death. I know that that sounds a little, like a little heavy, but it's the truth of the matter. Some of us feel things incredibly deeper than others. I notice there's something else that I want us to notice and that he shares this with those around him calling tension to not leave him alone but to keep watch. He was desiring for his disciples to be with him in this moment which just reveals community. That Jesus had people around him that were there to support him. That seems wild that Jesus needed the support of his friends but what he was teaching them in that moment that they hopefully probably caught not taught was that we need to do this together. You're not alone. His face to the ground

he even expresses himself to the father and I think that he truly understands this that it's not his will but the father's will. Jesus goes into a place of pain. He doesn't distract himself from what he's feeling. He enters into it. He meets God in it. How? There's three movements that are taking place in this story. One is that he gives God his feelings. He says my soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. The father is with him in it. Like I said with his disciples there he's not walking alone but also like he's not walking alone. He is one with the father as the father is with him as John so eloquently writes in John 17 that the father is with him in this. So there's Jesus isn't alone in a

spiritual sense and then in a physical sense with those around him. This is a raw of Jesus' feelings but he's not alone. He also gives God his desires. He says father if it is possible to take this cup from me and the cup meaning the cross meaning that he knows what he was about to have to endure what he was about to walk through but then he gives God his trust because he says yet not my will but yours. this becomes a place of surrender for Jesus because he doesn't try to force something to happen but allows the will of the father to take place and Jesus surrenders to the father. Silence is not simply the absence of noise or the shutdown of communication with the outside world but rather the process of coming into stillness.

Brandon Manning wrote that in his book Abba's Child and I think years ago Brandon Manning actually came to Winchester to the local church which is pretty wild. Silence is an important aspect in solitude and it's not talked about enough I think. It's absolutely paramount in solitude. Manning also says this that silence is solitude practiced in action. So how does this all come together? We just read a really deep intense story of Jesus. We've been discussing the different things that we encounter when we walk in to these times of solitude and then now as we're going to try to bring all of these pieces together let's say this here's the pattern in what I want us to take away from. First when you go into solitude you go to get away from the noise and distractions

of ordinary life and this is at your house this isn't it could be a silent retreat it could be this you know very intentional couple of days or it could be every day of your life where you walk into these where your prayer time adjusts into something a little differently than just you pleading to the Lord for something which has its place or sometimes you can walk in quietly and allowing the spirit of the Lord to move and speak let yourself feel remember we don't give we don't ignore our emotions nor do we fully give into our emotions we are not primarily driven by them but we need to feel them we need to let them flow through us we need to understand what's happening and we need to walk with God into these things

and not just ignore them or give in to them remember let whatever is down come up and then you have to walk through it don't just suppress it because you're going to have to deal with it again it may be joy or gratitude that comes up it could be exuberance because it was a great week and that's okay however it also might be exhaustion it might be fear it might be grief wherever you are in life that's sometimes what the emotions that come up whatever it is let yourself feel don't run to your distraction of choice stay with the pain follow it all the way down to God don't walk away without finding God in it just this simple act of noticing and naming your emotions before God can do wonders for your soul psychologists

talk about the importance of not only to name your feelings for your body to process and discharge emotions but actually name your feelings so that you can understand what is happening in the moment one you want to realize that you are not your feelings your feelings and emotions are a part of you but not the whole self you get a little distance from them and with it freedom secondly you realize that you have a lot of feelings a lot of emotions and sometimes you also might feel anxiety or excitement or maybe even melancholy but also joy this this this is all part of how we were designed in the image of God but as for us followers of Jesus once we notice and name our inner life which is a key task in this in

our spiritual journey and a key function in the practices is to create space for this to happen once we notice and name then we can offer our feelings to God for our own transformation

image of anybody else we walk into this to be transformed into his image think of Paul in 2nd Corinthians 416 where he says therefore do not lose heart but though the outer man is decaying yet our inner man is being renewed day by day our inner man is constantly picking up shrapnel from our lives and we don't deal with it in the moment because we have children or work or something that stands in the way but that thing is going to come back up and better to walk through it with God than walk through it alone so while we're in solitude there's three things first we give God our feelings secondly we give God our desires and thirdly we give God our trust remember don't shy away from the place of pain go there and

meet God in them the great lie is that we heal by moving away from pain when in reality we heal by moving toward it meeting God in it and surrounding ourselves with community Ruth Ruth Ruth Halle Barton she shares that every day she wakes up she practices silence and solitude she for the first now this is maybe a little bit extra because she's at a different stage in life those with young kids this is incredibly challenging but she starts out her day with no phone no music no distractions no not even a book most of the time just being quiet in her mind getting her coffee started going to sit down quietly starting the day in silence and solitude and even in those moments too reflecting on the things of yesterday and letting some things

pass through but also engaging God in what she felt and experienced from the day before in closing many people fear being quiet they fear being alone I know that it's a cliche thing to say you're only truly comfortable with yourself if you can I think go to dinner alone go to the movies alone and I'm sure there's another one that's not what I'm saying here fear of being alone is you're terrified of what might surface I'm not going to talk about the depths of the things that have surfaced from in me that's my inner journey and for those around me that want to walk alongside of me and we'll shoulder some things together but it comes up Jesus also often repeated the command do not be afraid what you find in this waiting is the

deep dark of your soul is love is Jesus is there waiting for you to love you to burn yourself clean draw out the dross of your life and bring you in to the wholeness in him in solitude we experience being totally exposed totally seen totally known and completely forgiven accepted by and loved by God just as we are just as you are this is an experience few people ever truly realize but it's truly possible for you to experience the depths of Jesus in the innermost parts of yourself to where you might think you're not lovable but guess what you are Jesus meets you in the very depths of yourself cleaning the outside of the cup is super easy walking through the interior cup that's where pain is realized that's where challenge really comes in but

God meets you in these moments so don't be afraid Jesus is waiting for you in the quiet let's pray father in Jesus name thank you Lord that above everything else God you meet us in every stage of life God you meet us in the depths of the darkness to the beauty of light in our great successes in our terrible failures Lord you meet us in all these places so fathers we journey through this week God where we walk out practices of encountering ourselves in these times of solitude Lord I pray God that you would give us the peace to remain with you walk through things and be able to really walk in the identity and the wholeness that we have in you in Jesus name amen hopefully you saw communion on your way in I

forgot to announce it during my unscheduled comedy hour that wasn't very good so if you didn't get a cup and you want a cup feel free to take that time now grab a couple for your friends and neighbors as I was thinking about communion in light of Nick's message and this story of the garden of Gethsemane really is happens right after Jesus institutes the Lord's Supper and he goes into the garden into solitude and prayer and does model for us what solitude can look like in our lives that it is an opportunity you know we talk about at this series we said that discipleship is about being with Jesus becoming like Jesus and doing what Jesus did we become like Jesus by doing what Jesus did and so this invitation to solitude really is an

invitation to bring yourself naked before God and just like Jesus came and said take this cup from me this cup that I've already committed to doing to going forward with take it from me if that is possible and so for us it's welcomed for us to come to God with our desires for the things that we want him to take away the things we want him to fix the things we want him to heal and yet at the same point like Marissa said earlier like we're willing to just surrender to his presence even if things don't change and so communion really is this opportunity for us to remind ourselves the values of the kingdom of God that the victory Jesus won for us isn't just about making our circumstances better but about being with us

in the midst of our circumstances I was thinking about this verse in Hebrews this morning Hebrews chapter 3 the writer of Hebrews tells us to encourage one another daily so that we will not be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin the desires of our flesh often bring about lies that lead to sin and so communion is this regular opportunity for us to remind ourselves what the kingdom of God is all about that life is built on the foundation of dying to ourselves surrendering our lives to Jesus that is a choice that we have to actively make our flesh will tell us that there are things that will lead us to life but Jesus has told us that the true thing that leads to life is self sacrifice taking the bread and drinking the juice laying

down our life surrendering our life to Jesus and so as we take communion this morning I really just want you to spend some time reflecting on your desires what are the things that you want

some of those desires are good and right Jesus prayed may your kingdom come your will be done on earth as it is in heaven there are things that we're praying for healings that we want to see happen and we know in the kingdom of God there is no sickness pain or death and so it's good to pray for those things it's good to want those things some of those

your presence is going to be enough I'm going to lay down my desires my will not your will not my will but yours be done be just be with me in it and on the other side of the coin there are desires that we have that are clearly in disobedience to God's will and his way there are things that we want in our inner selves fleshly desires greeds lusts vengeance whatever it might be for you there are things that you're going to bring to God and say man I really just want this thing I want this extra zero in my bank account I want this anxiety to go away whatever it might be and communion is an opportunity for us to say God I know that these things inside of me these desires that I

have are selfish and sinful and I choosing to say not my will but yours be done I'm choosing to follow Jesus to the way of the cross choosing to lay down my life and to pick up my cross and to follow after him so I just wanted to use communion this morning to encourage you to not be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin there are things in your life that you think will lead to life but the only thing that truly leads to life is through his broken body and his shed blood so if you're a follower of Jesus and you are willing to examine yourself with those prompts and follow the way of Jesus remind yourself then this morning I encourage you to take this bread as a way of saying God not

heard a quote this week that resurrection can only happen in things that have died what is it in your life that you have not yet been willing to let die so that Christ can raise it up drink this juice as a reminder of Christ's blood shed for you I know four weeks on solitude for some of us that grew up in intellectually Bible teaching driven churches might be a stretch might be tough and so thank you for sticking with us leaning into this process I see it all over the life and teachings of Jesus and so I would just say as you lean into this as things come up and you surrender things to God take that action step if there's somebody that you realize that you have never forgiven and that in solitude the

Lord brings it up in your heart receive forgiveness from God but don't stop there take that to the person that you haven't forgiven I just I can't can't help but think that if that if we as a church take solitude seriously that there might be transformative conversations that happen all throughout our body as God convicts us of sin as God prompts us to encourage somebody that we know is struggling as we come to a place of solitude and hear from God and don't just take that for ourselves but take it to others what God might want to do in our whole body as a church so I'm excited scared fearful all

let's do it together stand and let's pray Abba in heaven holy is your name father your kingdom come your will be done on earth as it is in heaven give us everything we need spiritually and physically today forgive us for the sins that we've committed against you and against others and God as we have received forgiveness from you may we extend it to those who have hurt us and God in solitude reveal to us where we are being tempted to sin and fall short of your standard lead us not into temptation deliver us from the enemy for yours is the kingdom the power and the glory forever and ever amen go in peace church peace peace peace
