NAMES OF GOD: Everlasting Father
2025-12-08
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kIQ2mTZAvl4

I'll see you next time. I'll see you next time. I'll see you next time.

And if you've been around for any time at all, you've probably, well, if you've been around for a year, you've experienced this Watts service. Everybody's finding where their chair would be. I love that. We're creatures of habit. Gary is in his spot, but there's no seat there. There are chairs up against the wall. Also, if you can't stand or don't want to stand for about 35-ish minutes, no one's going to judge you if you grab a chair. But this is our Watts Sunday. We have the privilege from yesterday to next Saturday hosting Watts, which is the Winchester area temporary thermal shelter. And we have 30-ish guests that are staying with us this week. They arrive in the evenings, have breakfast, have dinner in the evenings, have breakfast in the mornings, and then head out on a bus.

And so we are privileged to host them, and that's why our service is a little bit different. But it is becoming increasingly one of my favorite services because it allows us to put our core values into practice and not just talk about them, but do them. So if we haven't met, my name is Ryan. I have the privilege of being one of the pastors, and I'm going to give you some brief announcements. Then I'm going to invite a lovely family from our church up to light our Advent candles and read some Scripture, sing some songs, hear from the Lord. And then at the end of service, we'll actually spend time praying over each individual cot, praying for the guests that are joining us this week. Right now in the kids' room, our kids are making gift bags for our guests and praying over those.

It's really just a sweet opportunity for us to tangibly demonstrate the love of God to others. So that's what's going on. I think there's still opportunities to serve throughout the week, so you can find our volunteer sign-up sheet online, or you can find Mike Gad if he's here. He is here. Wow, he's pulling some long—this is long hour weeks. He's got a clipboard, so definitely find Mike Gad, yes. He is our czar. We would not be able to do this without him, and so thank you, Mike. All right, announcements. Men's fire meeting this Wednesday at Corey's house, 630, second Wednesday. This is a great opportunity for you to gather around the fire with other men and just be introspective about what the Lord is up to in your life. Ask spiritual questions and just iron sharpening iron, encouraging one another.

So if you're looking for a spot to get to know other men and have spiritual conversations, we'd love for you to join them there. My parents are hosting a live nativity outreach on Wednesday, December 17th, live being humans, not animals. So it will be a non-smelly live nativity. The goal is to invite a lot of the families over from the kids' club to kind of share the reason for the season with them. A lot of our children are participating in the live nativity, and there'll be kind of pockets of time of retelling the story of Jesus. And so if that's something you want your kids to participate in, would love to have you just stop in anytime between 4 and 7 on the 17th. And if you love baking and want to feed children, you can bake cookies and bring them in this coming Sunday.

My mom's shaking her head like I'm doing a good job giving the announcement, which I'm pumped about. Yes. If you're a member, then we have our annual meeting coming up next Sunday, the 14th, from 5.30 to 7.30. This is when we elect our new board members, approve or disprove our annual budget. Approve. Thank you. Yes, that's coming from a guy who's been the chair of the board for a long time. Approve would be great. That's already been sent to you. So please look those over ahead of time if you have questions, comments, concerns. We would love to address those before the meeting. It's easier to address things before meetings than in meetings, especially if you raise your hand and ask us a question that you've had for two weeks, but we didn't know you had until that moment.

So we've all been in those meetings. We don't want that. We want you to ask your questions ahead of time. So make sure you're hanging out with us for that. If you remember, Christmas Eve candlelight service, another one of our favorite services. So that is going to be, do we have the time on the screen? 6 p.m.? I'm just here, so I never know when things start. So 6 p.m. Christmas Eve, that's a great time to invite friends and family and prepare our hearts for what God's up to. I think that's all I have. Yeah, let me pray. And as I pray, I will invite the Reinharts up for the candles. Father in heaven, we thank you for this unique opportunity to do church in a way that is different than we're used to, but I think in a way that really embodies what the kingdom of God is all about.

And so as we kind of give up some of our comforts and some of our just consumeristic tendencies in the way that we operate in church, God, I pray that this service would be one that your Holy Spirit is at work in, speaking to us, challenging us, and just drawing us into your presence. God, we are each children of you, the everlasting Father. You love us. You love those of us who are not yet in relationship with you, inviting and pleading with and demonstrating how much you love us through the cross and the resurrection. And so we just pray that, God, that more and more people would come to know you as everlasting Father. Just be in and through the conversations and the fellowship and the prayer and the singing. God, may all of it honor and glorify you. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One purple, one pink. Well, good morning.

It's great to see everybody. Thanks for everybody who started with Watts last night. Again, another round of applause, if we can, for Mike Gad. It was his birthday yesterday, so if you see him and you want to sing one more time, I'm sure he would welcome it. He loves birthday singing. Today's reading for Advent is from 1 John 4, 9 through 16. God showed how much he loved us by sending his one and only son into the world so that we might have eternal life through him. This is real love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son as a sacrifice to take away our sins. Dear friends, since God loved us that much, we surely ought to love each other. No one has ever seen God, but if we love each other, God lives in us and his love is brought

to full expression in us. And as God has given us his spirit as proof that we live in him and he in us, furthermore, we have seen with our own eyes and now testify that the father sent his son to be a savior of the world. All who declare that Jesus is the Son of God, have God living in them and they live in God. We know how much God loves us and we have put our trust in his love. Oh, holy night. The stars are brightly shining. And it is the night of our dear day, your mother. Long lay the world in sin and error. And the stars are shining till he appear and the stone felt his word. A thrill of hope. And it is the night of our dear day, the weary world knoweth for yonder breath.

Our new and glorious morn. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. The angel voices, O night divine, O night when Christ was born. O night divine, O night, O night divine. Truly He taught love one another. His love is love, and His God all is peace. In style He pray, for the slave is our brother. And in His name all oppression shall cease. Sweet hymns of glory, in grateful cultures raise me. Let all within us praise His holy name. Christ is the Lord. Oh, praise His name forever. He is proud and glorious. We're more proclaiming. He is proud and glory. Evermore proclaim. O night, O night, O night, O night, O night. The angel falls and said, O night, divine, O night, when our Christ was born. O night, O night, divine, O night, O night, divine, O night, divine.

I know who I am. 'Cause I know who you are. The cross of salvation was only the start. Now I am chosen. Free and forgiven. And I have a future. And it's worth the living. 'Cause I wasn't made to be tending a grave. I was called by name. Born and raised back to life again. And I was made for more. So why would I make a bed in my shame when a fountain of grace is running my way? I know I am yours. And I was made for more. And I was made for more. And I know who I am. 'Cause I know who you are. 'Cause I know who you are. And I know who you are. And I know who you are. The cross of salvation. And I know who you are. And I know who you are.

The cross of salvation. And I know who you are. And I know who you are. The mountain of grace is running my way. I know I am yours. I was made for more. And I know who I am. Because I know who you are. The cross of salvation was only the start. Because now I am chosen, free and forgiven. And I have a future, and it's worth the living. I wasn't made to be tending a grave. I was called by name, born and raised back to life again. I was made for more.

So why would I make a bed in my shame when a fountain of grace is running my way? And the way I know I am yours. I was made for more. And I was made for more. And hallelujah, you called out my name. So I'll sing out your praise. And hallelujah, you buried my past. And hallelujah, I'm not going back. And hallelujah, you called out my name. So I'll sing out your praise. And hallelujah, you buried my past. And hallelujah, you buried my past. And hallelujah, you buried my past. And hallelujah, you buried your past. And hallelujah, you buried my past. And hallelujah, you buried my past. And hallelujah, you buried my past.

Sing that one more time. I was made to be tending the grave. I was called by name. Born and raised back to life again. And I was made for more. So why would I make a bed in my shame When a fountain of grace is running my way? I know I am yours. And I was made for more. How about now? Do you guys hear me? All right, let's pray. Dear God, thank you so much for a different Sunday. Some of us are showing up for the first time. And I'm glad that they're here. Some of us have been here for a long time, showing up. And for us to look at these beds and just contemplate what that might be like, God, makes us thankful. I just pray for just an eternal collision, God,

between us and you today. Speak through Ryan. Speak through Ryan. He's going to speak about fathers. And some of us have a good experience of what that is. Some of us don't ever want to see them again, God. But reshape our minds, Lord. Reshape what it means for you to be our father. None of us have it perfect, God. And something today I hope that we would all come away with. It's just that you are our father, God. So I pray for this time and continually invite you in. Have your Holy Spirit be throughout the room, Lord. And all this in your son, Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I always need a nap after Sunday mornings, is that I have to stand for 40 minutes straight. So like, let's test the theory out. You guys let me know if you need a nap more than normal.

Maybe it's just standing. Maybe standing is the thing. So, or maybe your hip joints are going to be tough from sitting on the floor. I don't know. It has become a tradition over the past few years. I think we've been doing it since the merge to host Watts on the week of love for Advent. And I really, like I said, I've come to enjoy this gathering because it's a tangible reminder for us that love is not just a noun to be studied and understood intellectually. But it is a verb to be, to experience, both experience tangibly and live out tangibly. And the church, the church in America oftentimes loves the idea of understanding things. But the more challenging aspect for us is learning to step into the information that we know. And so each year we intentionally sacrifice the comforts of a normal gathering.

And if you guys knew that this was happening and you showed up, I'm so thankful that you stepped out of your comfort zone to experience this gathering. And if you didn't know that this was happening and you showed up and you stayed, I am so thankful. What a testament these people in this room that you're willing to sacrifice the comforts of what a normal church gathering would look like so that we can host a group of people who are in need. And although we make a concerted effort on this particular week, this is the type of sacrificial love that we are invited to participate in on a daily basis, laying down the comforts and desires of our own lives in order to demonstrate the love of God to those around us. And the thing as a pastor that I constantly want to remind people is that we do not do that out of religious duty.

We don't sacrifice because we feel like we're going to earn something for God or we feel like he's going to be proud of us if we do. We sacrificially love because it's our family identity. As children of the everlasting father, we love because he first loved us. And so I just constantly want to remind us that the invitation is not just to understand, but to live out. And we live out not because we think it's going to do something for us eternally, but because something has already been done for us. And so today we're briefly going to look at the messianic title of everlasting father and see how that corresponds to this idea of love in our lives. There are notes on the back of the bulletin. If that's something that you like to do.

I'm curious for those of you without clipboards, Mike Gad, how you're going to do it. But if that's something you want to do, we would love for you to participate in that. Let's pray. And I promise I will keep it short because I do understand that this is not easy. Father, everlasting father, from beginning to end, before we were created, you were in relationship with yourself. There's a Trinity and you created us out of that love from everlasting to everlasting. You are our father. And there are times and seasons where all of us reject that love and live as orphans on our own. And yet the goal of the Scriptures and the goal of the word become flesh is to invite us back into that relationship. And so this morning, God, may those of us who may have drifted away from you as father be drawn back to you.

May those of us who maybe have never understood you to be father understand that and experience that for the first time. And for those of us, God, that know and love you as father, but are easily discouraged, easily filled with shame, guilt, fear, anxiety. God, may your fatherly love cover us. May we be reminded that our father is the father who owns a 10,000 cattle on a hill. God, everything is yours and you are provider for us. And so there's nothing that we need to be afraid of. We love you. We thank you for this day. It's in Jesus name I pray. Amen. We've been looking at this passage in Isaiah chapter nine, verses six and seven that give us a few titles or names of what Isaiah was preparing God's people to expect when Messiah comes.

And this is what it says. It says for a child is born to us. A son is given to us. When Messiah comes, the government will rest on his shoulders and he will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting father, prince of peace. His government and its peace will never end. He will rule with fairness and justice from the throne of his ancestor David for all eternity. The passionate commitment of the Lord of heaven's armies will make this happen. So we've been looking at these titles and many of them make sense on the surface from what we know about Jesus from the New Testament. Some of them, there's tension between what he brought at his first coming and what he will bring at his second coming. This passage very much is an already not yet passage, but I don't know about you, but the one that sticks out to me and maybe is the most perplexing to me is that of everlasting.

Father, because I've grown up with the New Testament in my hands and the New Testament describes Jesus, our Messiah as the Son of God. So how can he be both son and father? Well, lucky for you, we do not have time to do a, to unpack Trinitarian, Trinitarian theology. And even if we did, we would likely walk away more confused than we walked in with. Because the reality is, I think this idea of Trinity, God, God, the father, the son and the Holy Spirit is meant to be a mystery that we will never fully grasp and that we are invited to marvel in. So I don't have time to fully kind of unpack what all of this looks like. And even if I did, I don't know that I fully grasp it with my small brain.

And that's not a, yeah, anyway. What I do have time to say is that when Jesus shows up as Emmanuel, when he shows up as God with us, the promised Messiah from the beginning pages of Scripture, described to us in this passage of Isaiah, what he does do, I believe, is he demonstrates and teaches us what the everlasting father is like. That this is his role as Messiah, that when he comes as the word in the flesh dwelling among us, that he both demonstrates for us what the father is like in his characteristics, in his nature, in his qualities. As we read stories about Jesus, we are reading stories about what the father would do if he was living on a sinful earth. He demonstrates for us what the father is like, and he clarifies by his teachings for us what the father is like, because it's easy for us to be confused and to misunderstand and to read some passages from the Old Testament and say, I don't think the father is loving, right?

So this is what Jesus does for us as the Messiah. As he comes, he demonstrates and he teaches what the everlasting father is like. First, he demonstrates and as a pastor, I have the privilege of talking to a lot of people that are skeptical about Christianity. And I'm sure you all have had conversations with friends and family who maybe struggle with the idea of Christianity or the Bible. And I don't know about you, but one of the overarching themes that comes back to me over and over again with people who struggle with Christianity is they see a disconnect between the God they read about in the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament and the Jesus of the New Testament. And as someone who just spent some time reading through the Old Testament again over the last few months, I can be honest and say I resonate with some of their tensions.

I often feel this tension as well. However, I think oftentimes the tension that we have is because we misunderstand what's happening in the Old Testament or oftentimes God's people in the Old Testament do things in God's name that he never commanded or condoned. And so God gets the credit for Israel's failures. And people look at God in the Old Testament and Jesus in the New Testament and they get confused. But what I want to remind us of is this conversation that Jesus has with his disciples, particularly Philip. Philip asks him this question. He says, "Lord, show us the Father and that will be enough for us." We just want to see God. We want to see the everlasting Father. We want to see what he's like. We want to see who he is and that will be enough for us.

We won't be afraid and we can be confident in the mission that you're giving us. And Jesus responds, "Don't you know, Philip, even after I've been among you such a long time, anyone who has seen me has seen the Father." This is the proclamation of the New Testament, that Jesus and the Father are one, that when you see Jesus interacting with the marginalized, with the sinful, with the broken, with the sick, that when you see Jesus showing compassion and grace, this is the activity of the Father from all time. Nothing, there wasn't some flip of the script where God decided to change his character when he sent Jesus. This is what God is like when we see Jesus extending grace and compassion and patience. We see the everlasting Father who created us out of love and invites us into a relationship with him.

When we see him confronting the self-righteous and the religious leaders, but doing so with compassion. I love this about Jesus, because we want to talk about Jesus flipping tables. But when you watch the conversations that Jesus has with these religious leaders, he's constantly brokenhearted and inviting them to see where they've made mistakes, where they've misunderstood who the Father is, where they're acting out of religious duty rather than relational identity. And he's saying, "You're missing the point. Come back to the Father. Understand what the Father is inviting you to." Even when we see him confronting and challenging, he does so with compassion. And these are the attributes of God, the everlasting Father, lived out through the flesh of humanity in Jesus. God, the everlasting Father, who is one with Jesus the Messiah, sees every human being as his child created in his image and desires a relationship with each of them.

That is the story of the Bible. The story of the Bible is that God wants a relationship with you. However, many of us, all of us at birth have rejected that relationship. We've walked away from him. And the Scriptures resounding message over and over and over again is this repetitive invitation to come back to the Father. That God is moving towards us with his grace, even when we are moving away from him in rebellion. This is the character of our everlasting Father demonstrated to us in the person of Jesus. So this is the first thing I think that Isaiah means when he says the Messiah will be everlasting Father, that he will demonstrate to us what the Father is like. We will be able to see the activity of the Father in the flesh. And the second thing he does is not only does he demonstrate it for us, he gives us an example, but he teaches us what the everlasting Father is like.

One of Christ's most masterful teachings, in my opinion, is in Luke chapter 15, where he gives this very descriptive and illustrated story of what God is like as our everlasting Father. And again, I don't know about you, but one of the other issues that people both inside and outside the church often bring to me about this idea of God as everlasting Father is many of us have had complicated relationships with our earthly Father. And so when we take this idea of God being everlasting Father and connected with the image that we have of Father, it really has this tendency to create tension. I know that there are some of us in this room who have been abandoned by our fathers, who have been physically or emotionally abused by our fathers, left with a number of unmet expectations.

That is the reality of fallen and broken creation. And even those of us who had great relationships with our dads have been hurt and disappointed by them at some point in our lives. And so what Jesus does when he comes to teach what the Father is like is he gives us a story that is meant to help us reimagine what it looks like for God to be Father. He wants us to kind of brush away any potential image we have of earthly fathers and he wants us to reimagine what it actually means for God to be Father. And he does so by telling a story of a good Jewish father. The story in what is known oftentimes as the parable of the prodigal son is a story of a essentially a good father in an honor shame culture, a father who in this culture would have been expected to protect and care for their children as long as the children followed the rules.

And then what happens when the children follow the rules is the dad is released from his responsibility to take care of the children. And what Jesus does in this story is he flips even the image of a good father, he flips it upside down. And he says that not only is God the Father a good father by earthly standards, but he's so much more than that. He flips the script. And when he is dishonored, he actually dishonors himself in order to honor us. That this is the the thing that Jesus is trying to do for us is give us a beautiful vision of what it actually looks like for God to be father. Like I said, the story is most well known as the parable of the prodigal son. But as I've studied more, I actually prefer to call it the parable of the compassionate father.

Because I think the more I look into this story, the more I look into what Jesus was all about. Is that the premise, the idea, the whole focal point of the story is actually about the action of the father. I actually heard somebody say this week that you could essentially like, essentially, he said that the characters of the sons are almost exchangeable. Like Jesus chose a prodigal son and a self-righteous son because those were the two people in the audience that he was speaking to. He was talking to the tax collectors and sinners and he was talking to the religious leaders. And so he used these two images of sons because that was best represented of the category of people in the room. But you could exchange the characters of the sons with any type of rebellion, any type of walking away from God, any type of dishonoring God.

And what doesn't change in the parable is the character of the father. That no matter what type of sin or rebellion you do, so maybe you don't necessarily fall into a category of a prodigal or self-righteous. But at some point in time, you have rebelled against the father. You have dishonored him. And what does not change in this story is that God is a compassionate father who's reaching out to you with relationship. That he's willing to do what it takes to fix the brokenness of the relationship. The driving characteristic of the father in this story is that of compassion to his wayward children. There's this word in the story of the parable of the prodigal son that when the son is far off, it says the father saw him and had compassion on him. We talked about this word when we did the parable of the good Samaritan, the Greek word is splachizomai.

I can't believe I remembered that because I don't have it in my notes and I wasn't planning on sharing it, but there it is. It is a word that is only ever used of Jesus and of the Jesus characters in his parables. It is this gut wrenching gut level. I'm going to do whatever it takes to fix the thing, the situation that this person is in. I have compassion on them and I am reaching out to them and I will do whatever it takes to fix this situation. So Jesus takes the image of a good Middle Eastern father in an honor shame culture who would lovingly protect and provide for his children as long as they complied with cultural expectations. And he flips it on his head. In this story, the father is dishonored by his sons and would be fully justified by cultural expectations to cut them off from relationship.

But instead he dishonors himself in order to protect and redeem his children. Jesus is giving us a teaching on what it means for God to be our everlasting father. So what I want us to think about this morning is whatever baggage you come into this place with when it comes to this title of father. I'm inviting you and I think Jesus is inviting you both by his actions, his activity and his teachings. He's inviting you to lay that baggage down and begin to see a clearer image of what it means for God to be your everlasting father. Who is filled with compassion towards you who will do whatever it takes to protect and redeem you even as you are actively rejecting him. So as we begin to kind of conclude our time here, I want to end our time together by reading a modern day version of this parable of the compassionate father.

If we don't have tissues out, we might want to get them. It's in a book written by Philip Yancey called What is So Amazing About Grace. And his goal here is to help us just lay our baggage of what we think about God as father at the foot of the cross and reimagine what it might look like in modern day setting for God to be a God of compassionate, of a compassionate father. And one of the reasons I chose this story today as we host Watts is that in the midst of this story, the character ends up living on the streets. And so when we think about our guests and the people that we are welcoming into our home, I just want us to realize that there are a million different ways that we might find ourselves in situations that we find ourselves in.

There are, we might make a few decisions when we're young and not have a support system. We might have bad things hit us over and over again. There's a number of different ways that we might find ourselves in need. And what God wants to do is extend his loving hand towards us as everlasting father. So my hope is that this emotional and imaginative story about the compassion of God as everlasting father told in a modern day narrative will help us better grasp how high and how wide and how deep the father's love is for us. If you're really an imaginative person and you want to close your eyes, you can. Again, I'm reading this directly from Philip Yancey's book. What's so amazing about grace? A young girl grows up on a cherry orchard just outside Traverse City, Michigan.

Her parents, a bit old fashioned, tend to overreact to her nose ring, the music she listens to and the length of her skirts. They ground her a few times and she seethes inside. I hate you, she screams at her father after an argument. That night, she acts on a plan she's rehearsed many times. She runs away. She has visited Detroit only once before on a church youth group trip. Because the news reports gangs, drugs, and violence in Detroit, she decides it's the last place her parents would ever look for her. Her second day there, she meets a man driving the biggest car she's ever seen. He offers a ride, buys her lunch, and finds her a place to stay. He gives her pills that make her feel better than she's ever felt before. She was right all along, she decides her parents were trying to keep her from the fun.

A month passes, two months, a year. The man, she calls him boss, teaches her a few things men like. And she's underage, so men pay a premium. She lives in a penthouse and orders room service. Occasionally, she thinks of home, but their lives seem so boring now. She has a scare when she sees her picture on the back of a milk carton. Have you seen this child? But with blonde hair, makeup, and jewelry, no one would mistake her for a child. After a year, the first signs of illness appear and the boss turns mean. These days, we can't mess around, he growls, and she finds herself out on the street without a penny. She still turns a couple of tricks at night, but they barely cover her habit. When winter blows in, she sleeps on metal grates outside department stores.

A teenage girl in downtown Detroit never relaxes her guard. Dark bands around her eyes, her cough worsens. One night, as she lies awake listening for footsteps, everything about her life looks different. She no longer feels like a woman of the world, but like a little girl lost in the cold, frightening city. Her pockets are empty. She's hungry. She needs a fix. She pulls her legs under her and shivers beneath cardboard. A memory jolts. May in Traverse City. A million cherry trees blooming, her golden retriever dashing through rows of trees. God, why did I leave? My dog eats better than I do now. She knows she wants to go home. Three calls go to voicemail. She hangs up twice, but the third time she says, "Dad, Mom, it's me. I was wondering about maybe coming home.

I'm catching a bus up your way. It'll get there around midnight tomorrow. If you're not there, I'll just stay on the bus until it hits Canada." The seven-hour bus ride gives her time to reconsider. What if they're out of town? What if they don't check their voicemail? What if they've written her off as dead? Her thoughts bounce between fear and the speech that she rehearses. She says, "Dad, I'm sorry. I know I was wrong. Can you forgive me?" She says these words over and over. Her throat tightening as she rehearses. Then she hasn't apologized to anyone in years. Tiny snowflakes hit the pavement. She's forgotten how dark it gets out here. Billboards appear. Mileage signs to Traverse City. Oh, God. When the bus rolls into the station, the brakes hiss. "15 minutes, folks," the driver says, "15 minutes to decide her life."

She smooths her hair, wipes lipstick off her teeth, looks at the tobacco stains on her fingers. Will they notice? Will they even be here? She walks into the terminal not knowing what to expect. Not one of the thousand scenes she imagined prepared her for what she sees. There, inside the concrete walls and plastic chairs of Traverse City bus station stands a group of 40 people. brothers, sisters, great aunts and uncles, cousins, a grandmother and a great grandmother to boot. They're wearing goofy party hats and blowing noise makers. Taped across a wall is a banner that says, "Welcome home." Out of the crowd breaks her dad. She stares through the tears, quivering her in her eyes, and begins her speech. "Dad, I'm sorry, I know." He interrupts her. Hush child, we've got no time for that.

No time for apologies. You'll be late for the party. The banquet is waiting for you at home. This is the type of love that Jesus demonstrates and teaches us about the everlasting Father. This is the type of love the Father has for you.

He sent Jesus, the Messiah, to demonstrate and to teach you so that you might have a clearer picture, so that your imagination might be expanded about how much God truly loves you. And I don't know where you're at, or what you've done, where you've been, where you're headed. But I think this morning, what the Father wants to remind each of us, myself included, especially me. That he's a good dad. The perfect dad. That he loves us. That he loves us. And that he's inviting us to extend the love that we receive from him to others. We will come in contact with a number of individuals, both this week and throughout our lives. For those of us who have no imaginative opportunity to even grasp the reality that the God who created them might love them.

That the God who created them might love them like this. And for those of us who have tasted and seen that the Lord is good. The first invitation is for us to continually receive that. That when we screw up, we turn back to the Father. That when we fall flat on our face, we don't look up expecting anger or frustration. But we look up expecting an outstretched hand picking us up and dusting us off. We receive it first. And then as we receive it, because we have first been loved by God, we go and extend that love to others. Hoping that in some way, shape or form, we might expand their imagination about what it means that God who created them loves them. We love because God first loved us. Let's pray. Father in heaven.

Thank you for the gift of words. The gift of authors who can take Scripture that we've read over and over and over again and maybe even become numb to. And help us to reimagine what it means for you to be a compassionate Father, an everlasting Father. God, this morning I pray that we would have fresh eyes to see how much you truly love us. That we'd have fresh eyes to see how much you truly love each individual that you have created in your image. Individuals that frustrate us, that take advantage of us, that steal from us.

And the invitation for those of us who are children of God is to look even at our enemies and say, you are loved by an everlasting Father. And because he is not yet here in the flesh, I am going to show you what his love for you looks like. God, help us to be a people who receive your love, who understand it emotionally, mentally, and who are able to give it out freely without fear of rejection or insecurity.

God, I pray for each one of our guests this week. I pray that as we interact with them at meals. God, that we treat them like a child of the Most High God. That their imaginations might be expanded for what it means that you love them.

God, that we might learn from them what it means that you love us. I pray all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Mike, did you, I didn't talk to you. Do you want to give an update and share some things about where we might still need some volunteering? After Mike kind of gives us an update, your invitation is to go pick up your kids, hang out in the lobby, and we're going to keep the auditorium quiet for a little bit. And we'd invite you to spend time praying over these cots, praying a blessing over each individual that's going to stay with us throughout the week. We're going to bring in their bags and put them on cots and invite you to invite your children to pray with you. And then I'm going to hang out by the prayer tent.

If any of you all need prayer, we'd love to do that. So you do what you need to do and then dismiss for that. Yeah, sounds good. Sign ups have been amazing. You guys have filled the blocks. I've got maybe my biggest need is Saturday morning getting cleaned up and church put back together. It starts at about 7:15. You can bring your kids with you on that if you want. This last Saturday set up, we had 25 folks. We finished in record time. It was pretty amazing. We've been through one cycle. One dinner, one night, one breakfast. Everything went smooth. You guys are rock stars with this. The guests and the WATS staff look forward to this week because we get it right. And getting it right doesn't necessarily mean that the cots aren't lined up perfectly and the coffee's hot.

That comes with the base model. You guys, you love on the guests. And they notice. Thank you for that. Looking forward to a good week. If you're not signed up, just come on out. Just take part in the fun. We'll find a spot for you. But yeah, as you leave, if you want to pray over a cot, our guests are really struggling. We've got some that just have some really tough stories. They need Jesus. Just pray for them for that. And otherwise, that's it. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you.
