PTW COMMUNITY: Confess Your Sins
2025-10-06
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4BUfrKtq7AE

Thank you so much for joining us. Thank you so much for joining us. And then they're like, I don't know if I want to teach this. And then someone else says, I don't know if I want to teach this one either. They're like, let's see if Nick wants to. And so this one's challenging. And so I don't know if I want, you know, people to get mad at me for sharing this. So let's get Nick in here to do this. So if I say something that you don't like, you can respond. You can email me at ryan at canvas of community dot church. Make sure you get the email right because my email can get kind of messy trying to email Ryan. But I'm glad that I'm with you this morning. This is a, I don't want to say this is a fun topic, but I think any topic when we get to talk about Jesus is amazing.

And so this one might not seem that amazing to some, but as we dig in, hopefully you can see it with a different lens. Somebody once told me years ago, I don't know who it was, that you're only truly comfortable with yourself if you can do two things. And that's if you can go to dinner alone at a restaurant or if you go to the movies alone. And that's you're truly comfortable with yourself because you're not worried about judgment of others as you're out doing something in public that should be done in a community group. It's with your friends or with, you know, maybe a spouse or somebody else. You're doing something alone that is out in the community that you shouldn't be alone, but you're comfortable with yourself if you're able to do that.

And I'm not meaning to add shame to anybody if you do these things alone, where Ryan mentioned shame earlier. We're going to touch on to that here in a little bit. But if I brought this into context for today, you're only truly comfortable with yourself in community if you can do these three things. And that's if you can have somebody over your house and it's not perfect. If you, the second thing is that you can go over to somebody else's house and it's not perfect. And I don't mean chaos. Like there is a level of chaos in somebody's home that I don't know if I could be in, but I just mean like general like life busyness. It might not be as well kept as your house is. Like if you came over my house, you might get dog hair on you because we have dogs.

But, you know, we're going to do our best to vacuum the couches because we do allow our animals on the couches, but we try to cover them up. But, so, can you go over to somebody else's house that isn't perfect? Or are you willing to share with those closest to you your flaws, your imperfections, even willing to be a trusted place for people to share their most vulnerable self, the sins that they carry? Then you truly are comfortable in community if you can do those three things. So, before we go any further, I want to open us up in Scripture and we're going to engage in the word of God. We're going to go to 1 John 1, verse 5 through 9. We're going to do something probably different for some of you, but very familiar for most.

So, I'm going to invite everybody in the room to stand for the public reading of Scripture this morning. Feels very strange for some, but where I grew up, this was very common. And this is what we did. And I wasn't raised Protestant, but this is just what we did. And I have, I love reading Scripture. And so, 1 John, it's on the screen. I'm reading from the NASB. John says, This is the message we have heard from him and announced to you that God is light. And in him, there is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him and yet walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in light, as he himself is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. And in the blood of Jesus, his Son cleanses us from all sin.

If we say we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Father, in Jesus' name, Lord, as we engage your word this morning, Father, I pray that you would illuminate the things that need to be illuminate and remove anything that needs to be removed, God. And let us just see your word, hear your word clearly, and honor it in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated. I'm not going to pretend to be able to pronounce this Greek word here for fellowship, so I'm not even going to do it. But if we were to peel back a layer a little bit and try to understand what this word fellowship here means, it can mean a variety of things.

Sharing in, sharing in, partnership, contributory help, willing to share, a share or spiritual fellowship. It can even go so far as into a marriage relationship. But we're not talking about premarital counseling today. If you want to talk about that, you can see Ryan out at the information desk after service. What I believe that the Apostle John is conveying here is really a two-fold and active participation out of the Scripture. And what do I mean by that? He says that if we have fellowship with him, meaning Jesus, and then he says when we have fellowship with one another, there's two things. Then he adds if we confess our sins. First, we have fellowship with Christ. Then we have fellowship with one another, community. And then it leads us to confession of our sins. John is teaching us a standard in which we should all take notice and remind ourselves of regularly.

In community, if we say we have no sin, then we are deceiving ourselves, just like he finishes later on. Sin is there. Sorry. If we say we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves. Most of us live with other humans, so we can't say that we live without sin. And for those of you who live alone, you leave your house and you encounter other humans in public. So if you say that you have no sin, then you could almost be like God told Abel in Genesis 4, verse 7. He said sin is crouching at the door. Sin's there. But yet, it's there. God warned Abel that sin was at the door. And it's also could be a warning for us that maybe we get to the point that we just confess the opportunity that we have and we haven't actually crossed the line into it.

That could be something that we should also be considering. Living in community was never meant to be easy. It was always meant to be formational. If it wasn't so, we wouldn't be faced with the challenges that we find ourselves in along the way, and for some that have even caused major derailments in their life. John Mark Homer says this, it's easy to become guarded or even emotionally allergic to community because of our wounding. Yet we can't give up on community. We have to move toward the very thing we fear because this is the place where we will heal and grow. As we begin to dig in this morning, I want us to first look at a few challenges that we face both personally and communally. And the first one is just general busyness in life.

It takes a lot of margin to live in community. Relationships take a lot of time and effort. For being honest, most of our schedules are over capacity. I don't know about yours, but my schedule is constantly very full and low margin. And I have to look in the mirror that it's definitely my fault. It's not somebody else's fault. I have the calendar on my phone, and I get to choose what I put on there, but I end up with less spare time. A few weeks ago, you talked about Dunbar's four circles, and Dr. Jeffrey Hall from the University of Kansas conducted a research on how much time it takes for a relationship to move through Dunbar's circle of community. And he said that he finds it takes about 50 hours for an acquaintance to move through and to become a friend.

And then about 200 hours for a friend to become a close friend. That's a lot of time. That's a lot of investment of time with somebody else. And when we're young, we find ourselves with a lot of time to invest in relationships. And the older we get, we can find ourselves with less margin and sometimes less friends. And it's not a critique on anybody, just sort of painting a very black and white picture. Racking up 200 hours in busy time, that's really difficult. Secondly, we live in a very transient society. You know, people move away as soon as you get to know them. It's a general rule in our culture that careers are extremely valuable. Community sometimes takes a backseat to careers. You know, successful people sometimes move from city to city with a new opportunity to move up the ladder in some company to be able to, you know, move up in their career.

It's not a bad thing, just, you know, sort of black and white painting a picture. And something also very specific for our area is government and military jobs. You know, we have families that move into our area pretty often that get a new government contract or a military posting. And then as soon as they're here, they get plugged in, they volunteer. And then, boof, they have to move because they've been relocated to another area or they've gotten a contract out or even somebody might even been furloughed. And something else, if I could ever so gently talk about something slightly controversial, is that sometimes people just leave churches. It happens. Sometimes for legitimate reasons, but if we're being real, people church hop. I mean, we have people come to our church all the time that are just testing the waters to see how good our children's program is.

And then we don't see them again. That's because they're testing things, they're hopping around, they're trying to find where they're going to land. And again, please hear me clearly. This is not critiquing and beating somebody up. This is just painting the picture that as soon as we get to know some people, poof, they can be gone for some reason. Because we have a very sort of transient sort of culture around us, which I don't want to get into the church model that we could be fostering, which is very negative. Let's not even go there. For those of you, you know, it can be really tough to be in some of these communities where people leave as soon as you meet them. The third thing is a digital distraction. You know, I'm using the digital device.

Most of you have a digital device in your phone. Thanks to these devices, we can connect with more people than our grandparents could have ever imagined. Great-grandparents, maybe. Maybe great-great-grandparents. I don't know. There's a lot of grandparents that are probably here too. But they never thought they would connect with this many people. But yet, I don't know if connectivity is the same thing as community. You know, how many times are you friends with somebody on social media that you've met one time years ago, but yet you remain friends on Facebook or Instagram? And that's cool, man. You can share things back and forth, but yet you met them once. Are you really friends? Have you really, like, gone through the cursive of life? Have you, you know, walked through some difficult challenges of life that have sort of formed a relationship?

Probably not. It's more about connection than it is community. Social media has dramatically changed the way that we do relationships. It's speeding up and making it really fast to make new friends, but dramatically lowering the bar for what we call friends, which is very interesting. And this also relates to the fourth thing, which is flakiness. It's true, man. It's true. Not only has tech made us less focused and more distracted, but it's also made us very flaky. And we're more conditioned to always sort of have an option open for something. You know, one psychologist who was doing some research on the effect of text messaging told a story of a teenage son who had a weekly phone call scheduled with his grandparents. And he really didn't want to talk to them this week because he really wanted to just, you know, take a break and play video games.

But he couldn't send a text message. He had to call them to tell them that he couldn't talk. So we opted to just call them because that was going to be easier than to have to tell them on the phone, hey, I can't talk. Well, you called me. You could talk. But if I just send him a text message, that gives you a quick, easy out in something. And although sometimes a quick, easy out might be that I just need to sit on my couch on a Friday night and do nothing, which that's my plans for the night. If I'm, you know, confessing to you, not trying to make myself out to be this, you know, perfect person. But sometimes text messages make it really easy to get out of something when that phone call meant more to that grandparent than that grandson really ever knew.

Some of us are reluctant to even schedule stuff far in advance because we don't know what the future holds. So we don't want to commit to something that's too far down the road, creating what's sort of a disconnect that is a byproduct of number five, which is the decreasing of relational skills. According to a recent study, more than 200,000 people across 160 countries, since 2011, there's been a steady decline in emotional intelligence of around about 5% a year. So do the math. I'm not a math guy, but I can do some quick math, five plus five plus five. That's a lot of decrease of emotional intelligence. That means that there's less connectivity. There's less, there's like a, almost a dumbing down sort of, of society. Because when we're around people and we can talk with them about their struggles in life and we can connect one-on-one with people,

we tend to talk through things versus getting away from things. So community should be bringing us together. And this has created an entire generation, unfortunately, that really lacks relational skills to go deep and stay together with people through the long haul of stuff. In the book, Relational Spirituality, Elizabeth and Todd Hall draw an attention to a psychological or theological shift, or a better word might be drift, that began during the medieval time of the 12 to 1300s. And this period is called the scholastic period, and that only worsened up through the Enlightenment, which came next. And that drift is that a relational approach to spirituality became more individualized, which broke off from community, and really what broke off from God. Allowed for a philosophical approach to God, sort of infiltrate things, make it less relational, and then people took a step back from community and made it to be, we just go to church on Sundays, we don't really engage in spirituality in our community.

And the Enlightenment only exacerbated a problem that began during the medieval period. The point here is that people are busy, we have transient sort of society, we're distracted, we're flaky, we're deeply not emotionally mature, and as Westerners, we can prioritize our individualism, and these are just a few of our challenges. But here's the thing, it gets worse. There's a deeper problem that's underlying most of these things, and Ryan spoke about it earlier, and that's shame. If you do it, shame, think about it like this, if you do this, like if you find community, if you set aside time for a weekly meal, you put in those 200 hours to get to know somebody, you know, develop this new friendship, and intimacy will grow, guess what? That's gonna solve all your problems. No, it's not. Could it help you?

Yes, but it's not. It's a good starting place. There's fear. There's a far deeper and more ancient challenge that we're gonna face when the predates modern world by a millennium, it goes all the way back to the garden in that chain. Many people struggle with relationships long before we got an iPhone or a smartphone. Long before that. I guess you could say an iPod. Long before any type of the digital devices in there, or a Palm Pilot. I guess that was before an iPhone. I guess I'm dating myself or some other people. Many of the challenges I just named, like busyness and transient society, are just some symptoms of this disease that is much deeper. Genesis tells us that we were created in the image and likeness of a relational God, meaning that we were created by community and for community.

But the story doesn't end in Genesis 2. In Genesis 3, if we read what theologians call the fall, and the literal scene between the two stories is this line from Genesis 2.25. It says, Adam and Eve were both naked and felt no shame. Interesting choice of words. Interesting choice that the writer chose to say, no shame. Where they could have said things like, hold on, I jumped ahead. This is the author's one-line summary of the state of humanity before sin. Two people utterly naked before each other with no shame. A Hebrew scholar says it this way. The ideal picture is one of relational safety, vulnerability, and trust and acceptance of one another. And this goes all the way with sin, and it's in place comes shame. Think about how fascinating the author chose to use this word.

They could have said, no fear, no anger, no hate, no sadness, no despair. Because all those words sort of fit in the grander word of shame. But instead, Moses chose to use the word shame. Shame isn't just feeling bad about yourself because you did something wrong. No, it's deeper fear that you are unlovable. It's not just because you did something wrong because you were bad and your parent, your dad's coming home from work, and you're going to get in trouble today, okay? That's just general fear because you did something stupid maybe, all right? And your dad's going to, you know, get some retributive justice going on in your house. Shame speaks to an unlovable peace that is deep within you, that somebody would reject you and even cast you out. That's why it feels so scary.

That's why it feels so scary. Our fear isn't just that we were bad. It's that we lose connection to those we love. And this fear isn't based on fantasy. It's based on the reality of sin. Once sin entered the human story, one of the results is ruined relationship. Sin is primarily about relational rupture. And not only does sin disconnect Adam and Eve from God, but it disconnected them from each other. They blamed each other immediately. And then out of that, a broken marriage. Their children, one killed the other one. And then from there, it just spills out into the wider society, almost all the way into Genesis 5, where the writer says that when Seth was born, he was created in the image of his father, which is interesting note. Seth was created in the image of Adam because sin had entered into the world.

We often hear that this story is about sin and it is, but it's about a brokenness. It is about sin's shadow of shame that came upon Adam and Eve. What's the first thing that Adam and Eve did after they sinned? They hid themselves. They hid themselves from God. God even made them coverings for their nakedness because they were ashamed of the very way that God created them. But yet he loved them so much that he created something for them to cover up the shame that they were even carrying. Instead of moving towards God and towards each other, they moved away and hid themselves from the Lord. This speaks to a very deeper thing that we would love for the world to be rid of, but unfortunately it's not. We still come face to face with it all the time.

Sin is what caused us to reject another person. But the shame came over our sin is what causes us to hide from them out of fear that they'll reject us. Shame is a disconnector. It makes us hide from each other, blame each other, and wound each other. It makes us hide from God and even hide from ourselves. Shame is not only a byproduct of sin, it often causes sin. Many of us don't realize this, but our dysfunctional behavior and relationships can be caused by shame that we're carrying. Sit with that for a second. Like how many of us have dysfunctional relationships that we've entered into and we're sort of the byproduct of the thing that we're carrying with us that has been the thing in the relationship that causes a pain or a suffering to happen in it?

It's okay. I mean, I don't want to say like it's okay, like to make an excuse for it, but it's okay to call the thing out for what it is. We have to be able to do that. We are constantly self-sabotaging ourselves. And we all have a genuine desire for love and intimacy, but yet we do sabotage ourselves. Some psychologists call this a self-betrayal, the way that we provoke others to behave in this very behavior of hate. But it's shame, our ancient enemy, that's wreaking havoc against us. Let's turn to Romans chapter 7, verse 21 through 25. And you don't need to stand. We're just going to read it. And Paul says here, starting in verse 21, I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good.

For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man. But I see a different law, the members of my body waging war against the law of my mind, making me a prisoner of the law of sin, which is in my members, speaking of his body. Wretched man that I am, who will set me free from this body of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ, our Lord. So then on one hand, I myself with my mind am serving the law of God. But on the other hand, with my flesh, the law of sin. He doesn't stop there though. He goes to chapter 8. Therefore, there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. We read that this morning. For the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus

has set you free from the law of sin and death. This is the good news. This is why we continue to read and we don't just stop and try to create theology off of something that's just, off of just chapter 7. We'll severely hinder our understanding of what Paul is trying to get across if we were to have stopped at verse 25. If we don't go into verse 8, a chapter in chapter 8 verse 1, we would miss what Paul is trying to bring us into. He's showing us something in chapter 7 and bringing us into something in chapter 8, saying, He's speaking about this shame that they felt in the garden. He's speaking about this thing that he has no idea that he's wrestling with, yet it's ever present in him. And how does he get through it?

Only by the presence of Christ that is alive in him, but it's not just for him. It's for all of us that are, that have Christ. For the law of the spirit of Jesus Christ has set you free from the law of sin and death. Jesus the Messiah has come to set you free and free from sin and its results of shame to reconnect us to God and reconnect us to others in the thick bond of love. This raises the question, how do we do it? This sounds really easy. Just accept it and go on from here. We can go have lunch. You guys are getting, we'll be done here soon. You can probably beat the charismatics to lunch. The Pentecostals are still worshiping. It sounds nice and pious to say that Jesus is the answer to the problem of sin and shame.

But how many of us love Jesus deeply and have been following him for years, yet we still struggle with sin? We hear there is no condemnation, yet we feel shame. Our parents couldn't stay married. Our community couldn't stay together. Our pastor couldn't even stay faithful. How does the gospel of Jesus become a reality and not just in our minds, but also in our bodies? Well, if anyone tells you that it's easy, they're selling you a bill of goods that you should return. The wound goes deep. Relationships expose the raw edges of our souls where we all are in a process of walking through things. Living in community, God gently, but ever so slowly unearths layer after layer, allowing these shadow sides of ourselves to get exposed. So we deal with it. It has to. The only way to deal with it

is the long journey of life in community that allows you to come face to face with the things so that you can deal with it. It's painful. It's painful. It's not easy. But it's a good thing. There's painful parts of our lives that it would be much easier not to face or if they're not exposed, but it's better to, if we allow ourselves to be formed into the image of Christ, not deformed by running from problems, but being like bison when a storm comes. Bison walk into the storm, they don't run from a storm, meaning that they know when they're walking into the storm, they're gonna get through to the other side because the worst part is right there. In many ways, this is our spiritual journey that we take one step at a time,

one layer at a time, slowly and ever so intentionally. St. Augustine, an early church father, says this in a sermon that he preached sometime in the early fifth century. He said, let the sinner not be ashamed to confess since God did not disdain to make himself a man. To bring this into context for today, this is well before, arguably well before systematic confessional practices were made in the Catholic church. That didn't develop until the medieval period. This was way before. So St. Augustine believed very strongly in confession to God, in confession to church and community, not just going to a man in a booth to confess sin. It was the church and community. The writer James tells us that we should confess our sins to one another and pray for one another that you will be healed in James 5, 16.

Notice his words to one another, not just to God. Not in the privacy of our mind, although we should be having practiced private confession as well as with somebody who's trusted so that we can be healed, not just forgiven, but healed. And James seems to even be echoing Jesus' words about unforgiveness in Matthew 6, in the Lord's Prayer. Not only does the discipline of confession set our hearts free from sin and shame, it connects us to God, it connects us to each other. Sin and shame are the great detractors. They create distance between us and God, between us and each other. Confession brings us back together. So living in community in our time of individualism in the West is not easy. We face all sorts of challenges that we've already mentioned from busyness to flakiness and more.

And one of the underlying problems that we face is shame. And it's through the discipline of confession that we come out of the shadows into the light and we find healing. We can't live 100% without sin. But we can live without shame. You can come out of hiding and you can know and be known. You can reconnect to God and others. And in doing so, we can increasingly year over year become more and more free from that maybe that one sin that so entangled us. But we will find the deeper we go, there's some other things that we still have to unravel the closer that we get with God. Tim Keller says this, to be loved but not known is comforting but superficial. To be known and not loved is our greatest fear. But to be fully known

and truly loved well is a lot like being loved by God. The question for most of us this morning isn't will you love or will you get into a community group and love others? Most of you might be part of a community or small group. I can't remember what you call it here. But it's will you let your guard down in community group? Will you allow yourself to be vulnerable to others? I have a confession to make this morning. We have some very close friends of ours that they told me that, hey, can you share some of your vulnerabilities with us? Not that I was always asking vulnerabilities for them but I found myself constantly leading them and trying to help them out versus they needed to hear some of the challenges that I face.

And not just these like deep sin issues that I might have been carrying but just like whether I'm frustrated with something or how I'm dealing with anger or how I'm like, how my wife and I have some intense fellowship moments and how we work through this, you know, intense moments that we may have. They were wanting me to be vulnerable with them so that they could get to know us more but they wanted to learn from us and how we did. and that hadn't clicked with me that they, we can kind of catch things more than get taught things sometimes. And that's how a lot of times in community, that stuff comes out. And then if we really let our guard down to be loved in community, like I started with 1 John in verse seven,

he says this, but if we walk in light as he himself is in the light, we have fellowship with one another and the blood of Jesus, his son cleanses us from all sin. But if we say we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You know, in the stream of Christianity that I was brought up in, I was raised in confessional things. It's easy for me to confess and be forgiven. It was easy for me to know that Jesus was on a cross and he died for my sins because he was always behind me or on the wall over there or at my house somewhere. But confession was something

that I didn't truly understand until I walked into a different stream of Christianity and it wasn't present. And finding it not there, I saw the lack of it and then I had to create it in my own life. And so I'll leave you with this prayer this morning as Ryan's gonna come up. Father, in Jesus' name. Father, I pray, God, that you would strengthen each one of us in this room, Lord, in the discipline of confession. Lord, in areas where there's weaknesses, where we have lack or where we have broken even spaces, God, that have drawn us away from you or created areas or where shame has reared its ugly head or created a deep root, God. Father, I pray in the name of your son, Jesus, that you would reveal those areas, Lord, and that you would also

give us eyes to see opportunities for us to bring this out in community, Lord, and not just hold it alone, but rather seek out in community where these things can be pulled out by its ugly root. And so, Father, just pray a blessing over each one of us as we move into a time of communion, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen.

Nick mentioned this and as I've been thinking about this, this line keeps coming back to me that we confess to God for forgiveness and that we confess to one another to be healed. And I don't know about you, but I've spent a lot of time for a lot of years confessing some of the same sins over and over and over again to God. And I wonder if there's part of the reason why I'm still confessing some of the same sins is because I haven't yet been healed because I haven't worked to create a vulnerable, safe community where I can confess to my brothers and sisters. And I've had experiences and I'm sure many of us have and that's why we've kind of been doing this series in this sequence because it takes time to build relationships

of trust and vulnerability where we can confess. It takes time to identify brothers and sisters who are walking in forgiveness that can receive our confession and not condemn us but help us to grow. Safe places where we can be ourselves and we can be received in love. And I'll never forget the first time I was kind of introduced to this practice of kind of in a more formal setting confessing my sin to a brother in Christ. It was actually Pastor Matt Lewis. And he gave me an assurance of forgiveness. There's something so powerful about another human being an embodied individual looking you in the eye. Someone you trust someone you know loves you no matter what's going to come out of your mouth next for them to look you in the eye and say you are forgiven

by the blood of Jesus. It's a reality that I knew that I've known for most of my life. It's a reality that I come back to in my mind on a regular basis but to have an embodied person sitting across the table from me someone that I know loves me and look me in the eye and say you have been forgiven. there's something impactful about that and then when we do it in consistent community with people that we love and trust it's like when I've confessed the same thing to somebody three or four times and then I do it again they can pull me aside and say hey brother what are we doing? Didn't we just talk about this? Haven't we been talking about this? What do we need to do moving forward so that confession

isn't just an addictive thing that we do to make ourselves feel better but it's to be healed to grow to move forward. So I thought we would do communion today because communion is this embodied experience with the body of Christ and the blood of Christ the thing that purchases for us our forgiveness. And the Scriptures talk about when we take communion especially with this church in Corinth who weren't doing it very well Paul tells the church in Corinth as they're taking communion to examine themselves and I think what he's getting at is he's saying make sure think about before you put the body of Christ and the blood of Christ into your mouth think about the mindset that you are taking them with are you taking them understanding that Jesus paid the ultimate price for your sin

are you realizing that you are not your own that you were bought with a price or is this just a religious hoop that you're jumping through that you're going to jump through again next week and next month and next year without allowing it to transform you from the inside out so we're going to do something that we've done in the past but that's semi-unique I'd love to invite you to stand and I think I have on the screen a corporate confession and I think just about every single one of us in this room could say these words confidently and truthfully we're going to make this corporate confession together before we take Christ's body and his blood and then I am by the power of the spirit going to pronounce those of you who are in Christ Jesus

forgiven let's confess to God most merciful God we confess that we have sinned against you in thought word and deed by what we have done and by what we have left undone you have not loved with all our heart we have not loved our neighbors as ourselves we are truly sorry and we humbly repent for the sake of your son Jesus Christ have mercy on us and forgive us that we may delight in your will and walk in your ways to the glory of your name amen there is therefore now no condemnation for those of you who are in Christ Jesus God sees you and he loves you and because of what Christ has done for you you are forgiven it's the body of Christ broken for you it's the blood of Christ shed for you

there should be some volunteers at the prayer tent after service find someone in your community if you want to share or get prayer and I will be at the welcome desk if I can help you in any way let's pray and we will dismiss Father in heaven we are so grateful for another opportunity to remind ourselves of your goodness of your grace of your forgiveness of the price in which you paid to forgive us of our sins God may we never lose sight of that may it not be something that we just continually receive over and over again with no desire to change God should we keep on sinning so grace may abound may it never be may we as your people be growing in fellowship with one another and being conformed into your image

so that we can push back the darkness and shine a light of your kingdom to the watching world all around us for your glory and for our good it's in Jesus name I pray amen go in peace church you you
