PARABLES: Who is My Neighbor?
2025-05-19
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rw3iVztS_vw

We'll be right back. We'll be right back. Welcome back to our series on the parables. This is week four, so if this is your first time joining us, you've missed a little bit, but we can catch you up pretty quickly. Shouldn't be a problem. Hopefully, you've been following along with us. We have talked about how one-third of the red letters in the gospel, one-third of the words that Jesus speaks in the Gospels are spoken in parables. These are very important lessons, stories that Jesus gives to us, and they're also very easy to misunderstand or misapply. It's easy to read things into them that aren't there or to miss things that are there because we're 2,000 years removed from a culture. And so, although we don't have time to cover all the parables, my hope is that we give

you some tools in your toolbox so that as you read and come across parables in your own Scripture reading, because all of you read the Scriptures on a regular basis by yourselves. Thank you. So that as you come across these parables, you can hopefully have some tools in your toolbox to understand them for yourselves. As we said at the beginning, that parables are indirect communication aimed at challenging your previously held assumptions. All of us love to have our previously held assumptions challenged, correct? Jesus does them creatively. He goes in through the back door. He appeals to our imagination, to our emotions. He doesn't just come right out and say, you're wrong. He tells you a story that if you take it to heart and walk away with it and think about it, you'll realize that he was telling you that you were wrong.

And maybe you'll be able to hear it rather than just confronting you directly. In context, they're directly confronting the nation of Israel's ideas in the first century. He is speaking to a specific audience for a specific reason. And so in order for us to understand how they apply to our lives, to interpret them correctly, we first have to understand the intended meaning. And then we can get some significance for ourselves. And last week, I introduced these three categories. I said that scholars have been trying to categorize parables in many different ways for a very long time. And you could find a plethora of categories. But because we are a church of real people with real lives, I chose a category of only three so that we would remember them. The three categories we talked about are the surprising arrival of the kingdom.

So Jesus talks, tells parables in such a way that he talks about the way the kingdom comes in unexpected ways. The first century Jews, a lot of them had very concrete ideas about how God's kingdom was going to come. And the reality of God's kingdom was different than what they were expecting. And so Jesus would tell these parables to try and help them broaden their horizons about what the arrival of the kingdom might look like. Second category is the surprising ethic of the kingdom of God. Again, there were previously held assumptions, things about who the kingdom was for, about how the kingdom would work. And Jesus tells these parables, one that we're going to cover today about the surprising ethic of God's kingdom, the invitation to obey it radically. And the last is as he gets closer to Jerusalem, he gets more and more clear about what he's

saying. And he has these crisis of choice parables. The kingdom is coming. The ethic is surprising. What will you do about it as the listener? Will you accept it or will you reject it? And he talks about the consequences of what happens if you accept it and if you reject it. We're going to get to those in a couple of weeks. They should be very fun. But for now, that's the context. That's where we've been. Does this sound familiar if you've been here for a couple of weeks? Good. All right. Thank goodness. All right. Let's pray and get started. Oh, Abba in heaven. We are so thankful for yet another week with breath in our lungs and an opportunity to sit here in a group of people that are considering your teachings. That are open to what you have to say to us.

God, we all come in here with different baggage. We all come in here with different previously held ideas about you and what you're like and how you interact with us. I pray this morning that you would soften our hearts and that we would be able to interact with your teaching in a way that allows us to be confronted with the truth. Convicted, challenged, encouraged, and leave this place with a better idea of who you are, of what you're like, and of what you're inviting us into. God, do that for your glory and for our good and for the good of our neighbor. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know if you've ever had the opportunity to ask a question of someone that you looked up to. Maybe it was in a college class.

Maybe it was at a Q&A. You had this opportunity to ask somebody that you look up to a question, or maybe you had the opportunity to ask a question of someone that is in a position of authority or power that you totally disagree with, and you thought you were going to ask the question that was just going to expose their hypocrisy or their bad ideology. I don't know if you've ever been in this situation. Maybe you showed up to a town hall to talk to a local politician. I don't know if you've ever been in this situation. I've been in situations like this previously, and if you're anything like me, I tend to psychoanalyze conversations that haven't yet happened. And so I remember these opportunities to ask questions of people either I looked up to or

I was trying to confront, and I would work so hard on wordsmithing, on crafting the perfect question, and I had two motivations lying behind that. The first motivation was if I'm asking a question of somebody I look up to, I wanted to word a question in such a way that I would impress the person I was asking a question of. You know, they get questions asked all the time, but I wanted to be the one that asked the question, and they were like, wow, this guy gets it. You know, what a great question. Or I worked so hard on crafting a question to expose the false belief of somebody that I disagreed with. So again, I don't know if any of you have had these experiences before, but I know for me, when I've had these opportunities, they often do not go the way that I think they will.

I often don't get the response that I thought I would. Maybe I'm not as impressive as I think I am, or maybe the person I disagree with isn't as wrong as I thought they were. But this is kind of the setting, the context for the parable that we're coming into today. There is a expert in the Old Testament law, an expert in the Jewish Bible, and he has this opportunity to come to Jesus with a question. And we don't fully know what his motivations are, but we know that he has this one opportunity that he's worked really hard on this question, and that he's going to get an answer that he does not expect. It comes in the form of a parable that's very familiar to most of us. And what I want to do from the outset is I want to caution us to read this parable slowly,

to wrestle with its implications. I think we have a tendency to read the Scriptures, especially the Scriptures that are familiar to us. We read them quickly without nuance in a way that allows us to demonize the perceived enemies in the text, right? It's like, ooh, that guy messed up. And so we read these texts and we think, okay, I'm bad, but I'm not as bad as that guy. We have a way of demonizing the characters in the story, and we're not able to see the implications that that might have on our lives. I think we've done this with the parable of the Good Samaritan. We've demonized certain characters, and we're not able to see the way in which we play the part of those characters on a regular basis. And so we're going to get an answer to this question that's unexpected, and it's going

to challenge us to the core, I think, as it did the original audience. So let's read it, see what God might have for us. Luke chapter 10, I'll give you a little bit of time. I usually like to give you a heads up before I get there. So Luke 10, if you have, I hear some paper flipping. I'm so thankful for people with paper Bibles. Those of you with digital Bibles, you're great too, but, you know, it's good to hold it in your hands sometimes. I'm old. I am old. All right. Luke chapter 10, verse 25. On one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus. Teacher, he asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life? Classic Jesus fashion, responds to a question with a question. What is written in the law?

Jesus replied. How do you read it? The expert in the law answered, love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, with all of your strength, and with all of your mind, and love your neighbor as yourself. You have answered correctly, Jesus replied. Do this and you will live. But he wanted to justify himself. I'm going to read that again. He wanted to justify himself. So he asked Jesus, and who is my neighbor? Again, an expert in the Jewish Bible gets his one shot, his one opportunity. Thank you. The song lyrics worked last week. I thought I'd try them again one more time. His one opportunity to ask Jesus this very important, pressing cultural and theological question, one that we've probably all wrestled with at one point in our lives. How do we inherit eternal life?

There has to be more than just this life, right? All of us have wrestled with this question. We've gone through the difficulties of life, and we've thought there has to be something more. How do I get this thing that seems like it's so there and real? How do I inherit eternal life? The text says this lawyer, this expert, does it to test Jesus. Now, we don't know exactly what the motivation is. We don't know if he thinks Jesus is a heretic that he's trying to expose. He's the expert. Jesus has got it wrong, and he's going to ask this pointed question and expose Jesus' false theology. Or maybe he's genuinely intrigued with the ministry of Jesus. He's seen the miracles. He's heard testimonies of all of the incredible things Jesus has done. But he's got some concerns about his theology.

Whatever the motivation is, he wants to know how Jesus would answer this very crucial question. He wants to know what Jesus thinks about how to inherit eternal life. Now, eternal life in this Jewish concept is different than we often think about eternal life in our day. The Jews in this day had a different idea about eternal life than we do today. The man wasn't primarily asking about an afterlife destination, which is often what we think about when we talk about eternal life. We hear evangelists preach to us and say, where will you go when you die? Do you know for certain you'll go to heaven when you die? This isn't primarily the thought in Jewish time at this day. They're thinking primarily about a quality of life that can start now and will last through eternity when God comes back and rules and reigns over the world.

When God returns in Jewish thought, all unrighteous ways of living will be destroyed, and all righteous ways of living will receive eternal life. So he's asking Jesus, what can I do? How do I start living now that will last for eternity? And again, in classic Jesus fashion, he responds to a question with a question. Now, before we move on, I just want to tell us that this is a good way. Like, we could learn a lesson from Jesus responding to questions with questions. And when you interact with people that disagree with you about theology, when you interact with people that disagree with you about God in general, I think the tendency is to try and come up with an answer to the question that proves that we've thought it through, that we have a concrete belief around what we're trying to communicate to them.

And again, I just think this is a total side note, but I think as we interact with people that disagree with us, we would do well to ask them clarifying questions, to help understand where they're coming from. And so Jesus does this. He asks this clarifying question, and the man's response is a home run. He literally answers the same way that Jesus answers in other parts of the gospel. He says, love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. He summarized the whole point of the law. This has been at the foundation of the Jewish faith. These two commands are the foundation of Jewish faith. And Jesus says, you nailed it. You're in good shape. Do this and live. That could have been the end, right?

That's it. He got his question answered. He got the right answer. But it says the lawyer just couldn't help himself. And I don't blame him. And I don't think we should jump to condemnation from him too quickly, because I think we do this a lot, more often than we might think. We try and justify ourselves. We have all of this good theology in the back of our brain. We want to obey Jesus, but we think, love God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Love your neighbor as yourself. That's not possible. That's not a possible thing to accomplish. No matter how great you are at it, you will not perfectly love God with your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And you will not love your neighbor as yourself. And so this lawyer is thinking, okay, I get that that's what we're invited to do, but none of us are doing that.

So seeking to justify himself, seeking to use theology to make him be able to categorize himself as someone that's going to have eternal life. He says, who really is my neighbor? Because it can't be everybody. Everybody can't be my neighbor, or I will never be able to live up to this command. And again, before we become self-righteous and judge this guy for asking a crazy question, I think we likely wrestle with the very same question ourselves today, even if we wouldn't say it out loud. And maybe that's his mistake. I regularly see Christians in America redefining the word neighbor or love so that we can continue to think the way that we think and live the way that we live. We regularly seek to redefine terms so that we don't actually have to think about obeying Jesus's words.

We can obey parts of Jesus's words and justify away the other words by redefining what the words mean. My question for us is, what if the ideas we're using from Scripture to justify ourselves, what if they're watered down and curated to promote our own comfort rather than Christ's kingdom? Would we be willing to let Jesus confront and challenge us in our place of comfort into a place of self-giving obedience? Are we willing to consider the reality that maybe we've built a theology that allows us to cleanly and neatly obey parts of Jesus's teaching while explaining away the rest of his teaching? Because I think that's what this lawyer is trying to do. I think he's trying to create a theological structure, create a belief about God, an interpretation to the Scriptures that allows him to continue to live a comfortable life of partial obedience.

Does that sound like the church in America to anybody else but me? Okay. We'll get there. I'm just warming up, guys. We're just warming up. Stick with me. This is exactly what Jesus does. Again, he goes through the back door. He challenges this guy's preconceived ideas by telling an incredibly beautiful parable that promotes the surprising ethic of God's upside-down kingdom. Let's read it, and let's read it slowly and thoughtfully. Remember, the parables were not intended for somebody to immediately get up and start explaining what they mean. Let's just allow the words of Jesus to confront our thoughts and our emotions.

In reply, Jesus said, a man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he was attacked by robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, they beat him, and they went away, leaving him half dead. A priest just happened to be coming down the same road, and when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side. So, too, a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came where the man was, and when he saw him, he took pity on him. He went to him, and he bandaged his wounds, pouring oil and wine, and then he put the man on his own donkey and brought him to an inn to take care of him. The next day, he took out two denarii

and gave them to the innkeeper. Look after him, he said, and when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have. The more I have spent time studying the parables the last few weeks, the more I realize how rich in depth they are, how there's so much theological implications in each parable, whether they're two verses long or seven or 10 or whatever it might be, there's so much going on. I heard one pastor explain it this way. He says that the parables are like if you put on VR goggles and you had a virtual reality tour of a house, it's like plopping yourself in the middle of a parable. You can just walk around and you can pick up things in the house and you can investigate them, you can examine them.

That's often what interpreting the parables is like. You get plopped into this story and there's so much cultural context. There's so many characters. There's so many things we could pick up and look and explore and they almost all have some theological implications for our lives. And in this parable, there's so much going on. There's so many things that we could pick out. I had to leave like 70% of the things that I found interesting in my study on the cutting room floor, which is unfortunate, but it's okay because we trust the Holy Spirit to give us the thing that we need to hear today, correct? So what I wanna do is, I think there's two layers here. There's two rooms that I wanna investigate with through the parable. And I think that they, if we allow them to,

they will challenge us at first, convict us, make us see the ways in which we fall short on such a regular and consistent basis. And then at the end, I think we'll be encouraged and feel loved by God who forgives us even in the midst of our failure. That's the plan for the rest of the time. Does that sound okay? All right, so the first layer of this parable that I wanna look at is the most obvious intended implication for the lawyer, for the expert of the law, and subsequently, anyone seeking to understand and apply the command to love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength and to love your neighbor as yourself. Jesus is telling this story to answer his question, who is your neighbor? How do I love God

and love my neighbor fully? In 2,000 years removed from this cultural moment, it seems like a pretty cut and dry story about some self-righteous religious jerks getting God wrong and a religious outsider getting God right. Does that sound like a decent cursory reading of the text? But I think this distant approach, again, allows us to keep from seeing how the attitudes of the priest and the Levite might still be very alive in our hearts today. We have to humanize these characters. We have to realize the context that they were in, the tensions that they were dealing with, because all of us, all of our lives are complicated and nuanced, and none of us have such simplicity that we like to read in the text. And so, I want to think about this. The Levite and the priest,

they had a significant role in the life of the nation of Israel during a very tumultuous time. These men were tasked with preserving the very identity of their nation in the midst of tremendous pressure both inside and outside their ranks. There was corruption in the Jewish world. There was corruption outside the Jewish world. There was persecution of the people of Israel. And it was their job to hold the line, to lead by example on obedience to God and proper worship of Him in a time when compromise and rebellion was rampant. I'm not saying they did the right thing because they didn't. But if we ignore the complex factors involved in their decision, we might miss the ways that we make similar decisions today. I think Christians in America, we have this pressure with outside forces coming in

and with inside forces redefining things that we have held true for 2,000 years. We feel this pressure to hold the line on truth, to hold the line on obedience to God and worship of God. And I think sometimes I see this in our day and age today where sometimes we feel this pressure and we're trying to hold Christianity together. We're trying to be obedient. We're trying to be faithful. And we're so focused on that that we miss obedience to God all around us. And I think it would be easy for an outsider to look in and say, oh, you Christians, like you're really good at saying the right things, at putting the right things on paper, but what are you doing with the people around you who are suffering? So I don't think it's, I don't think we can get away

with just like demonizing these characters and justifying it away. I think they had three primary tensions that they were wrestling with. The first is fear of safety. It's a very dangerous road. It's very possible that the robbers who beat this man half to death were using this half dead man as a trap to get some compassionate person to come in so that they could beat him half to death and take all of his stuff, right? There's fear of safety and security in this text. It could be easy for somebody who feels self-important, who feels like their role as a priest or a Levite serving God in the temple, they can't take the risk of getting hurt because if they get hurt, then the temple's gonna be short-staffed, right? The worship of God could go by the wayside.

I've gotta make sure I'm safe. There's purity laws in the Old Testament that would have made it very embarrassing and costly and inconvenient for them if they happened to touch a dead person. So they don't even get close enough to know whether or not he's dead or not. He looks dead, they assume he's dead and they're not going to take on the difficulty of dealing with this person even though in many Jewish teachings of the day taking care of a dead person was like something that they absolutely should have done. So I don't know if it's fear or purity laws or their theology notice that there's a debate going on around at this time about who the neighbor actually is in the text. Many Jews would define loving your neighbor as yourself as just Jewish people

while others would say no, it's everybody and there's this theological debate going on within the nation of Israel at the time and you'll notice in the parable that Jesus leaves this man culturally ambiguous. he's half dead and naked, he's got no clothes on and he can't talk. Those would be the two primary ways for somebody to know where you were from in this day and age. They'd listen to your dialect and they'd know if you were Jewish or not and they'd see how you were dressed and so there's no way for these priests and this Levite to know whether or not this is a Jewish person or not and so maybe they've got this theology that I'm only supposed to love my Jewish brothers and sisters and I don't know if that's a Jew or not

so I'm not even going to go near it. Whatever reason or combination of reasons led these two to decide their lives were more important than this man in need and what Jesus does next would have been extremely shocking and emotionally provoking. He picks the category of people that the Jews hated the most to make the hero of the story. The priest and the Levite miss the opportunity to love their neighbor as their self and in walks the Samaritan. The Samaritans were descendants from the 12 tribes of Israel but during the Assyrian captivity were forced to intermarry with Gentiles leading them to incorporate idol worship within their worship of Yahweh. They actually built for themselves a separate temple outside of Jerusalem and they claimed that they were truly worshiping Yahweh which led to this deep hatred

between the Jews and the Samaritans. As I was studying it this week I heard somebody refer to close enemies versus distant enemies and I thought this was so helpful. I think for many of us it's easy for us to extend more compassion on what we would consider distant enemies. People that just totally disagree with us totally like they're just totally out in left field in our minds they don't have anything in common with us they don't hold any of the presuppositions that we hold it's easy for us to say well they don't know God and so of course they're gonna act that way I can have compassion I can have empathy but okay now these people who are claiming to know God who are worshiping this way who are living this way who are affirming

these things it's harder for us to have compassion on people that are close enemies. Am I the only one? We often have less empathy for people who claim to know God but act differently than we think they should and that's how the Samaritans were to the Jews they were close enemies and this close enemy of the Jews forsakes any fear of safety any inconvenience of expense any potential feeling of self-importance and he moves towards this image bearer of God with compassion he gets his hands dirty he bandages his wounds he nurses him back to life from the brink of death he stays with him overnight in a hotel and gives the hotel manager two weeks worth of room and board out of his own pocket I don't know how many of you have two weeks

worth of holiday in sitting in your bank account it's a lot of money not only that he says I'm gonna come back in any extra expense any if you have to pay more than these two denarii if you have to pay more than this two two works with weeks worth of room and board I will pay you back for taking care of this person I've never met before and don't know anything about I don't even know why he ended up halfway dead in a ditch it might be all his fault but I am going to go out of my way to extend compassion and mercy and love to this person and I hope we can see the irony here two men who have given their lives to serve the God whose primary commands they've given

their whole life to serve Yahweh and his primary commands are to love God and to love your neighbor as yourself and they are the ones who refuse to love their actual neighbor while their enemy with bad theology chooses to sacrificially demonstrate obedience to these primary commands my question for us is what good is good theology without obedience who cares if we have all of our doctrines right if we don't love our neighbor my question is has good theology become the primary pursuit of the American church while neglecting basic obedience maybe it's just me because I live in these more scholarly worlds but I just see so many Christians dividing and fighting and disunifying over arguments about how to interpret certain texts of the Scripture and I don't know about you but last time I checked

the last prayer that Jesus prayed about the church was that they would be united with one another and so out of a desire to have our theology right we break unity with our brothers and sisters in Christ what good is good theology without obedience Jesus reengages as he finishes this masterful story verse 36 he says which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell in the hands of the robbers the expert in the law replied the one who had mercy on him Jesus told him go and do likewise notice that Jesus flipped the question the question that the expert asked him was who is my neighbor and the question Jesus asked him in response is which of these people do you think was a neighbor Jesus says the question

for God's people shouldn't be who is my neighbor but am I acting like a neighbor again it's easy to read the story quickly and mock the priest and Levite however as I slow down to ponder this story more carefully this week I realize that many Christians to this day still limit or refuse to tangibly love suffering people around us out of fear self-preservation or comfort and we hide behind our theology that allows us to justify and dehumanize entire categories of people who are image bearers of God and we dehumanize them as less than human and unworthy of love and compassion I bet you guys liked it better when this was a super familiar heartwarming story I did too I gotta be honest with you I was excited about preaching this and now I'm nervous because it's

extremely challenging if we allow it to sit with us if we allow ourselves to feel the tension that the Levite and the priest might have felt if we realize some of the ways in which we do the same things some of us have made our political ideology so central to our identity that we let our politicians disciple us into the dehumanization of entire categories of people and some of you heard that and you got really excited because you think I'm talking about the other party both sides do this and both sides use the Bible to justify their actions and at the end of the day most of our politicians not all of them but many of our politicians their primary concern is accumulating more power for themselves not obeying the Scriptures and so if we allow

our politicians to disciple us into how to categorize people who is our neighbor well this person is your neighbor and this person isn't your neighbor the person who voted for him is a good neighbor the person who voted for him isn't a neighbor this person who's fleeing from difficulty in their current nation they're definitely not a neighbor because they weren't born here and they're not legal and so none of that matters if we allow our politicians to redefine full categories of people into not neighbors we will not obey the commands of Jesus the command of Jesus is to love your neighbor as yourself and he intentionally leaves this person ambiguous to say anyone with breath in their lungs is an image bearer of God worthy of love and affection worthy of compassion and empathy no matter

their circumstances no matter if they're in a hole that they dug themselves into empathy love love that we have received from God that we are invited to extend to others now I realize that this seems just like the lawyer a task that is impossible so impossible it could cripple us with inaction all of us are surrounded by people who are needy and suffering how could we possibly obey this command how could we love every single person in need how could we stop what we're doing every moment of the day to help somebody who is suffering I love this quote from Klein Snodgrass fun name really fun name I think he gives us some clarity here on how to practically live this out he says the New Testament is more an identity book than it is a

guidebook it tells what Christian character is not what actions must be done in each case disciples of Jesus are those who refuse boundaries for the identification of neighbor and instead love even their enemies with that identity in place each person must determine what path of wisdom best expresses that identity so what he's saying here is he's saying the New Testament doesn't tell you how to live every second of every day it gives you an identity that then you get to by the power of the Holy Spirit live out every second of every day our identity as Christians is a people who refuse to define certain people as neighbors and certain people not as neighbors our identity as a Christian is to see every image bearer of God as our neighbor to be loved now within

each momentary decision that you have because you have to go about life you have to do things you have to go to work you have to take care of your family there are things that you have to do there are always going to be suffering people around us Jesus said that you by the power of the Holy Spirit get to be led by the Spirit to express that love to those around you there's freedom here but we have to do it with accountability because if we're not careful we will lump ourselves into a group of people that have redefined love or redefined neighbor and when we don't love our neighbor as ourself they're like no you're good that's not your neighbor or that's not what love means we've got to do it by the power of

the Holy Spirit in community with our brothers and sisters in Christ this is the first layer of meaning Jesus wants us to see stop asking who is my neighbor and start asking yourself am I acting like a neighbor am I redefining love or neighbor so that I can justify myself and my behaviors the things that I'm already comfortable with doing the second meaning is a deeper meaning for those with eyes to see and ears to hear remember we said earlier in our series that parables are intended to both conceal and reveal elements of the kingdom depending on the heart posture of the recipient that's what the parable of the sower was all about what is your soil like what is your heart like are you able to receive the truths of the kingdom or are you

rejecting them with a hard heart and I think for the disciples who had been with Jesus and heard teaching after teaching of the upside down values of the kingdom explanations about how he would have to suffer and die and be resurrected this has already happened in Luke they've already heard him say he's gonna have to suffer and die they've witnessed miraculous things like him touching leopards to heal them and raising a little girl from the dead might they and us by extension be invited to see a deeper meaning behind this powerful story I think both layers can be true although I think Jesus is intending to answer the lawyer's question about who and how to treat our neighbors he also wants us to see those of us who have eyes who are willing who are

open he wants us to see how God might bring the kingdom to us unexpectedly and sacrificially just like the Samaritan was the unexpected hero in the story so too would Jesus be the unexpected Messiah who would come not as a conquering king on a horse but a suffering servant on a donkey this word this phrase that Jesus uses of the Samaritan NIV says he took pity on him the Greek is more compassion and it's a complex phrase that's used multiple times in the Gospels and it's only ever used of Jesus having compassion on people it's this deep in the bowels sobbing compassion for the brokenness of humanity Jesus has compassion on you and on me when we're half dead naked laying in a trench he does something about it he takes action when we are

helpless and when he didn't have to lay down his life he chose just like the Levite and the priest did nothing to help this dying man so too will obedience to the law not be able to do anything for those of us who are dead in our sins we need more than moral obedience we need a sacrificial servant who would step down from his place of privilege to bring us back to life this is the gospel we were dead in our trespasses and our sins Jesus brought us back to life we were laying half dead in a trench unable to do anything about our circumstances and Jesus came to us with compassion and empathy when we did nothing to deserve it nothing to earn it so you might be thinking about certain categories of people

and you might be thinking but they didn't do anything to deserve it they don't do anything to earn it respectfully Jesus doesn't care every image bearer of God is our neighbor we need to see them with compassion and with empathy we need to see one another with compassion and empathy no one has seen God but if we love one another God's love becomes demonstrable it becomes visible to those around us this parable is both a parable about how to receive the sacrificial love of God that brings us from death to life and then how to take that love and extend it to the suffering and dying people around us so if you're like me and you read the Scriptures and you want to find yourself in them am I the only one you ever read the

Bible and you're like where am I at in the story you likely aren't the priest you aren't the Levite or the Samaritan although each of them have implications for our lives no you and I are most likely and most relevantly in this story either the half dead man in a trench or the innkeeper if you're in here and you've never trusted Christ for salvation the Scriptures define all people who have not come to the knowledge of faith the trust of Jesus over their lives it explains it defines us as dead in our trespasses and sins no good works no amount of therapy or religious experiences can make you alive you have to surrender yourself to the one who stepped down from his place of privilege and power to make a way for you to be

brought back to life so if you're here and you've never trusted in Jesus I hope that you hear in this story a depiction a beautiful incredible depiction of the gospel that Jesus stepped down from heaven when you were half dead lying in a trench and at great expense to himself the greatest expense laid down his life so that you could have life I implore you to wrestle with that this week to come talk to me or somebody at the prayer tent maybe you've made that decision recently and you haven't been baptized we've got baptism coming up this is a way for you to declare to the people around you that I was a dead man in a trench but Jesus brought me back to life maybe you're in here and you're a struggling believer I love

that the man's described as half dead I feel like many of us can relate we've trusted in Christ for salvation but we're trying to clean ourselves up apart from him I just feel like the Lord wants me to tell you this morning stop trying to overcome your doubts your fears your bitterness and your addictions on your own salvation from Jesus grace from Jesus isn't just for eternal salvation it's for power to overcome whatever you're going through right now surrender to Jesus and get plugged into Christian community that's what we're all about here we want to be a place where real people with real lives can grow in their faith together none of us have it all together but by the power of the spirit of God we can pursue obedience encouragement and accountability and lastly

if you're in here and you're like I'm doing pretty good I think we could put ourselves in the place of the innkeeper Jesus brings the innkeeper this half dead man that he's nursed back to life and he entrusts him with the care of this person he gives them two dinari and he says take care of him and I'm coming back does that sound anything like anything you've heard before I've done something I'm doing something and I'm coming back who has Jesus brought into your life to sacrificially love what skills and resources has he entrusted you with to serve and when he returns will he find will he find you faithfully taking care of the people that he's entrusted you with which leads us to got time good the lawyer's original question one that we've all

wrestled with what must I do to inherit eternal life I did my best to summarize Christ's answer to this man like this true life both now and for eternity is found through knowing loving and obeying the God revealed to us in Jesus this is the gospel we have to understand who Jesus is and what he's done and who we were before him we have to come to a place of knowledge and appreciation and affection for God starts with us receiving knowing loving Jesus and moves forward into us taking the love that we have received and extending that love to others through obedience do we truly understand how much God loves us and what he did to save us do we actively and intentionally abide in that love on a regular basis and out of an

overflow of that love are we seeking to demonstrate that love to those around us even when it's inconvenient or costly this is the surprising kingdom ethic this is the parable of the Samaritan is what it invites us to wrestle with the question that Jesus might ask us is do we have ears to hear this has been a tough one for me and I don't have all the answers I've got a lot more questions than I had a week ago so thanks for granting me the privilege of spending my week wrestling with this text I just I pray that we as a people would take these words seriously and if there's been some things that I've said that have frustrated you that have caused you to shut down or justify yourself by explaining away why I'm

wrong and you're right first there's a very real possibility that I'm wrong not denying that but second go back to the words of Jesus yourself and let him confront you wrestle with what he's saying to you not what I'm saying to you and be willing to surrender whatever identity you have created for yourself that allows you to have a Christian life that doesn't do anything Christ invites us to do we're going to take communion together and we didn't warn you that that was happening so some of you might have gotten it on your way in if not take the time now you want to lead us in some how he loves let's receive the love of God over us as we prepare to take communion *music*
