RUTH: God Will Get Redemption Done
2025-04-07
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wctfRMfzThQ

Thank you. Thank you. In our lives and in this space and to create space for him to grab a hold of our attention and our hearts. I pray that the worship has done that. I pray that the Scriptures will do that. I pray that our fellowship will do that. If we haven't had the privilege of meeting yet, my name is Ryan. I had the privilege of being one of the pastors here, and we have the privilege of being in a series on the book of Ruth, a very small narrative testimony in the Old Testament that is slowly but surely becoming one of my favorite books in the Old Testament. We started with an overview of how the book works. It is a story about two, three individuals who are in the midst of their own suffering, and

God is kind of behind the scenes at work bringing about a plan of redemption for their whole lives. But it's also not just a story about these individuals, but a story about God's redemption in the whole world. It's about how God is working through the messiness of our broken lives to bring about his redemption. I quoted one pastor, and we're going to keep coming back to this quote, who said, the book of Ruth is like the story of the whole Bible told in four chapters through three characters. It's the story of God working out his seemingly painstakingly slow redemption in the midst of our suffering. And it's a redemption that is set against the context of eternity. I think we get so consumed. Good thing there's no dogs in the room. That would be a problem in my household.

See how it goes. We got the best of the best back there, so they'll figure it out. They already figured it out. It's the redemption that's set against the context of eternity. We get so consumed trying to see the redemption in our own earthly lives, and that often comes. We often see God answer prayers. We often see God's people rally together to partner with God in bringing his redemption to our earthly worlds. But redemption isn't just earthly. It's eternal. Our lives are but a vapor. We're here one day, and we're gone the next. And God's plan of redemption is eternal and centered on the resurrection of Jesus, giving us a confident expectation that even if we don't experience redemption in the ways in which we're hoping and praying for God's plan for on this earth, that we will experience it for all of eternity in resurrected bodies, free from the curse of the fall, fully redeemed when heaven comes to the earth.

So I do have to give a warning this morning, just in case. As we get to Ruth chapter 3, it is going to be a little bit PG-13.

There's some feet being uncovered, and some people are running out of the room right now. I'm not ready for that. A little PG-13, and at times it might be emotionally heavy. There's some topics that are covered in the background of Ruth chapter 3 that I want to discuss that is charged with a lot of emotion and pain that some of us in the room have felt and are experiencing. And so I just want to kind of set the stage so that that doesn't sneak up on you when we get to it. Sound good? All right, let's pray. Abba, you are a good father. You are working about your good redemption plan in our lives, whether we can see it or not. Not only are you working redemption in our lives, but you are inviting us to participate in the process of redemption.

You are inviting us to surrender our will and our ways, our definitions of good, so that we can partner alongside of you with your definition of good. To see your kingdom come and your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. God, Ruth is such a beautiful picture of that.

And yet it falls. And yet it shadows something far greater that comes along in the gospel. Jesus, fully God and fully man. Bringing about our ultimate redemption through his death, burial, and resurrection. May you fix our eyes on that reality this morning. May it grip our hearts and our minds. May it not just be an intellectual belief that we ascend to. But a reality that changes everything. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, my beautiful baby boy just turned two this week. And I forgot I was going to put a picture up. Man, that's a bummer. I would have made the sermon ten times better than anything that I would have to say. He's an amazing kid. It's such a fun age. He's learning so much, loving to explore all that this world has to offer.

And he currently has two phrases that impact our daily lives. Very much so. The two phrases are by self and I help. By self means that he wants to do everything he possibly can do by himself. Whether or not he's actually capable of doing it by himself or not. He wants to try. It means that everything he wants to do by self takes five times longer than it would if he let us help him. And not only that, but we also have to stay very close to him when he's doing things by self. Because it's very possible that he could harm himself or others while he's doing things by self. The second is I help. He wants to help us do everything. From mopping the floor to folding the clothes. And I have to be honest with you, pastoral confession here.

When I see him running towards me when I have a basket of clothes in my hand saying, I help. I try and find something to distract him so that he doesn't help. Because his help is actually somewhat unfolding the clothes. But we love it. And the other day he wanted to make scrambled eggs with his mother. I help. Not only did he want to help make scrambled eggs with his mother, but he wanted to help make scrambled eggs that nobody asked for or wanted. He just wanted to make scrambled eggs at seven o'clock in the evening. And so my wife, who is a lovely, patient mother, said, why not? Let's make some scrambled eggs together. And I got to sit back and observe this sweet time of communion and connection and partnership that ended with a successful batch of scrambled eggs.

Along with a few unsuccessful broken yolks on the ground. And I share this story with you because as we continue to look at God's redemption plan unfolding in the lives of Ruth, Naomi, and Boaz. We're going to see it is a redemption plan that God is inviting his people into. And I think these two phrases help us to see how our participation often works in God's redemption plan. See, although by self is a very healthy phrase for a toddler gaining independence to use, when it comes to the kingdom of God, it is a phrase that represents the fall of man and the curse of this broken world. Our Abba in heaven, our good father created everything in this world, inviting us to partner with him, to cultivate it with him, according to his good and loving principles as a loving father.

And in return, we rebelled. We turned our back on God's presence and his principles. And we began to cultivate his creation by ourselves, according to our own selfish and corrupt desires. And these desires lead to chaos and destruction. We lie, steal, cheat, lust, abuse, manipulate to get what we want out of this world. And we don't typically care about how it affects other people. This is actually how the Bible defines God's wrath. In Romans chapter 1, the Bible says that God's wrath is allowing us to experience the consequences of us doing life on our own. It's God saying, if this is what you want, if you're not going to receive my invitation to do life with me, if you are going to go out on your own and live life by yourself, I will let you do that.

But just know that when you do, it will lead to your destruction and the destruction of others. It might lead to momentary pleasures. It might lead to earthly gain. But at the end of the day, it will lead to pain and consequences for you and others. On the other hand, this phrase, I help, represents our participation in God's redemptive plan. Even after our rebellion, even after looking at the God who created us and loved us in the face and saying, I don't want to partner with you. I want to do it on my own. He continually and regularly invites his people, all people, to lay down their previous life of doing it by themselves and to come into partnership with him. He invites us regularly to partner with him through obedience to his kingdom and reliance on his grace and forgiveness when we fail.

And I think for me, this image of Marissa making eggs with Rory will be in my memory for a long time because it's a beautiful picture of what our relationship with God is like when we choose to participate in his redemption plan. It's an invitation to do good work alongside our father who loves us and has our best interest and the best interest of those around us in mind. And the reality is when we pull up a chair and say, I help with God, there are going to be times when we, out of our own selfish desires or out of our own excitement or out of our own zeal, we'll smash a couple eggs and they'll still end up on the ground. It's not a perfect process. We are broken people. But at the end of the day, if we stick with it, if we stick by his side, looking to him for guidance and wisdom and direction, I believe ultimately we will see redemption in our lives and the lives of those around us.

And this is the overarching theme I want to explore in chapter three of the book of Ruth. It's that God will get redemption done. We've seen it, we've seen it in this, to our time in the book of Ruth. We see it all throughout the Scriptures. God will get redemption done, whether you and I participate or not, whether we are, nope, by self, I don't need you. I don't want you. I'm going to do life on my own. Or whether we seek to participate with him and help, even though, even in our helping, we often make things worse because we're fallen and we're broken. God will get redemption done, whether we participate or not. But the key reality I want us to focus on this morning is that there is a whole lot less collateral damage in our lives and in the lives of those around us when we choose to participate with him.

So, to recap, before we start reading, this chapter is shorter, so hopefully we'll end on time. Ruth and Naomi are suffering widows, doing their best to survive with no real hope for a future outside of purely surviving. Imagine that. Some of you can. Imagine the reality of waking up each day just with the sole purpose of surviving. There's no hope for a future. There's no thought of anything outside of how are we going to stay alive today. This is the situation that Ruth and Naomi are in. Chapter 2, Ruth steps out in faith, trusting in the character of God that she has recently come to know and love. And she begins to glean in the fields, hoping to gather enough leftovers just for her and Naomi to survive. And through the providence of God, she ends up in the field of a man named Boaz, who embodies the chesed love of God, the covenant faithful love of God for the widow, the orphan, and the foreigner.

Ruth steps out in faith again, and she makes a bold request of Boaz that will exceed what God's law requires of him, and he is blown away by her understanding of the heart of God. He goes above and beyond to her request. She comes home, if you remember last week, with two weeks worth of wages. God's redemption through human participation. God, at work, through the sacrificial love of Boaz and through the bold faith of Ruth, God is beginning to redeem Ruth and Naomi's stories in ways that they could never even imagine. And although this physical provision was a massive step forward for Ruth and Naomi, without a head of household and a patriarchal culture, they are still lacking a lot of security, a lot of hope for any real future. Yes, they have physical provision, but that's about it.

They still don't have a hope for their future. And that's where chapter two begins to wind down. And the author, as the author is going to do in chapter three, the author leaves us with a cliffhanger. Everybody loves cliffhangers, right? Anybody get sucked into binge watching a show way too late because each show ends with a new cliffhanger? They didn't actually answer any of the questions that they wanted you to—anybody else? That's me. For some reason, I'm addicted to shows that never actually resolve. They just cliffhang, cliffhang, cliffhang. And that's what Ruth did—the author of Ruth did in chapter two. She leaves this cliffhanger where Naomi begins to get a glimmer of hope from Ruth's faithful actions. And at the end of chapter two, she mentions that Boaz is not just a generous man, but he's also a close relative,

which makes him one of their guardian redeemers, a role that's outlined in the Old Testament law and the customs of the day, which encourages close-blood relatives to help families out when they fall on hard times. The chapter comes to the close with this big cliffhanger. What will happen? Is this just a job that Ruth and Naomi have, or is this something far greater? Is this something that will redeem not just their physical lives, but the family lineage that we've lost in chapter one? So let's look at chapter three this morning in four scenes. And the first scene, I'm calling Naomi's plan, verses one through four. So we end with this cliffhanger, and it begins in verse three, starting in verse one. One day, Ruth's mother-in-law, Naomi, said to her, My daughter, I must find a home for you where you will be well provided for.

Now, Boaz, with whose women you have worked, is a relative of ours. Tonight, remember the PG-13 warning, all right? Tonight, he will be winnowing barley on the threshing floor. Wash, put on perfume, and get dressed in your best clothes. Then go down to the threshing floor. But don't let him know you're there until he has finished eating and drinking.

Okay, this is in the Bible, people. When he lies down, note the place where he is lying. Then go and uncover his feet and lie down. In the Bible, people. Okay. He will tell you what to do. Now, one thing I want to point out here that I think is really significant is we see in chapter one that Naomi is totally done with God, right? She's coming back to Israel because she doesn't feel like she has any other hope at all. But she says, don't call me Naomi. Call me Mara, for the Lord has dealt bitterly with me. She is just absolutely done. Where is God's redemption in my life? How has he allowed this to happen to me? She is done. And in chapter two, I pointed out that Naomi's physically capable to take a 50-mile walk back home.

But she doesn't even have the hope to go glean, which is the thing that would provide her life. But what I want to see here at chapter three is chapter three mirrors chapter two, except this time the one taking the action is Naomi. It's almost like the faith of Ruth, the hope of Ruth demonstrated on behalf of both Ruth and Naomi is starting to wake Naomi up to have a bit of hope for her future more than she did before. Now, Naomi begins to play the role of Ruth's mother here. Remember, their mother-in-law, her son's dead. At this point, legally, they're just friends. But she decides that she's going to take on the burden of a parent finding a partner, finding a marriage for Ruth, seeking to arrange a marriage that will set Ruth and her family up for the future.

She knows that Ruth and Boaz have been spending a lot of time together in the fields. And not only that, Boaz is Naomi's close relative. And this is an opportunity for them to forge a marriage that would provide for Ruth in ways that she has no expectation of moving forward. This wouldn't be outside of the realm of possibility. Given the circumstances, it seems like it might be a match made in heaven. That was a pun. You guys love my jokes. I know you do. However, the plan Naomi proposes, I don't know about you, but to me it seems a bit risque at best and totally inappropriate at worst. It looks on the surface like Naomi is asking Ruth to potentially offer sexual favors to Boaz for the sake of continued and increased redemption for their family.

It's interesting. Wait until he finishes eating and drinking? All right, there's some stuff going on there. And although I believe, I truly believe the narrative is intentionally charging the scene with the potential for sexual exploitation and sexual inappropriateness, leaving the audience very curious for how things will turn out. This is a great screenwrite. What is going to happen at the threshing floor tonight in the dark after some wine has been drank? What is going to happen to this main character that we've grown to love? I think what Naomi and certainly what Ruth have in mind is far beyond sexual favors. It's a hope of a legitimate marriage that will lead to their ultimate redemption and long-term security for both Ruth, Naomi, and their family line. This phrase, wash, perfume, and dress in your best clothes, it looks like she might be trying to just make herself as appealing as possible to Boaz.

But I think there's more than meets the eye. I think she is transitioning from a widow in mourning to making herself, yes, appealing, but also signaling to Boaz that she is now available for marriage. When widows were dressed in their clothing for widow in mourning, it was very much a sign to all eligible bachelors that I am not on the market. I'm not available for marriage. But when they come out of this season of mourning and when they wash, perfume, change their clothes, they're making this visible action to those around them that might be eligible for marriage that I am now available. This is a bold and risky plan.

It's a vulnerable woman putting herself at the feet of a wealthy man in a position of power over her. It is bold and it is risky, but it is not unfounded. It's a plan that is rooted in the faith of Yahweh to redeem and the confidence that they have seen in the character of God demonstrated through Boaz. They're not putting themselves at the feet of somebody that they don't know and haven't seen demonstrate the character of God. Both Ruth and Naomi have seen Boaz's character lived out and they're taking a risk, but they're taking a risk based on circumstances that they've seen in his life. They're almost saying we trust him with our vulnerability. We trust him to do the right thing, even when no one's around. So the main application point I want to make from this scene is that the biblical narrative seems to indicate that God loves to use people who are willing to take bold and sometimes risky steps of faith.

From Abraham leaving everything he knew at the promise of God, making him the father of many nations. From David, a little shepherd boy who picked up a rock and a slingshot in front of an entire army of strong and powerful men who were deathly afraid to go up against Goliath. David says, I'm going to take a bold and risky action from Abraham to David to Elijah who dumps water, who literally dumps water on an altar and calls down fire from heaven. That's pretty bold. That's pretty risky from the disciples dropping their nets or leaving the tax collector booth. Everything they knew to participate in God's redemptive plan. It often takes bold, seemingly reckless acts of faith.

And the reality is back to the yolks, this is, we're going to keep coming back to the egg yolks on the floor because as much as it's a beautiful image that will be in my head forever, I also will remember the yolks on the floor for a while as well. Sometimes we take bold steps of faith in a direction that we think is God's only to realize it was misguided. Peter chopping off a soldier's ear in the garden. Anybody? Right? Like, sometimes this attitude that leads us into bold faith, to obedience to God's kingdom, sometimes the same attitude of bold faith leads us to do some things that we actually weren't invited to do by God in the first place. However, God seems to be more interested in active participants who hop in the boat with him and start rowing, even if sometimes they start rowing in the wrong direction, than people who are unwilling to take the risk of getting in the boat at all. Or, worst case, decide to build their own boat instead.

This is the words of Christ when he says, whoever wants to save their life will lose it, but anyone who loses their life for my sake will find it. And I got to be honest with you all this morning, this is a hard word for me because I don't know about you, but I'm a safety first kind of guy. I am a preserve and protect at all costs kind of guy. And yet, when we look at the grand narrative of Scripture, it often seems like God is inviting his people to take bold, risky acts of faith to participate with him in his redemption plan.

Following Jesus and participating in his redemption plan works best when we aren't crippled by fear, always seeking to preserve our safety, waiting for him to show up in miraculous ways instead of pulling up the chair with prayerful action and saying, I help. I'm with you. Let's do this together. Naomi steps out in faith with a bold plan. Let's see how Ruth is going to respond. Verse five. She's asked her to do some pretty bold things. And her response is, I will do whatever you say. So she went down to the threshing floor and did everything her mother-in-law told her to do. She washed. She perfumed. She got ready. She went down to the threshing floor in the dark, hiding from anybody being able to see her. And when Boaz had finished eating and drinking and was in good spirits.

Don't have time to comment. He went over to lie down at the far end of the grain pile. Ruth approached quietly, uncovered his feet and lay down. In the middle of the night, something startled the man. Yeah, I bet. He turned and there was a woman lying at his feet. Who are you? He asked. I am your servant, Ruth. She said, spread the corner of your garment over me since you are a guardian redeemer of our family. Ruth responds with her own bold and risky faith, doing everything Naomi suggests and even more. And last week, I rode pretty hard against this narrative that Boaz was immediately attracted to Ruth and that that was the only reason that he was being generous. And although I think Boaz's initial act of generosity towards Ruth was rooted in sacrificial love of God and neighbor, they've likely spent a lot of time together.

And Ruth likely thinks that there's at least a chance that he's interested in order for her to go make this action. It's risky faith, but it isn't blind or void of logic. Oftentimes partnering with God and his redemptive plan for the kingdom is us paying attention with prayerful hearts, asking the Holy Spirit to lead, guide and direct us, and then making the next best step moving forward. So this is what Ruth does. Now, there's a lot of confusing theories around exactly what it meant in this cultural context for Ruth to uncover Boaz's feet. And I know many of you have been asking me for weeks what exactly I think is happening there. I'm going to pull the pastor card and avoid answering it specifically. I don't want to get lost in the weeds on that this morning, but I think the overarching point is that Ruth is positioning herself at the feet of a man who's able to provide for her as a vulnerable person. She's about to position herself to make a very vulnerable proposal to him.

Also, it practically functions as the thing that would wake him up in the middle of the night. Like, at the threshing floor, they've just harvested all of their grain. This is everything that he has from the season. He is there in the middle of the night to protect it. So if somebody wakes him up by, like, grabbing his shoulders, he's probably got a sword beside him. And Ruth might not get to make the proposal that she's intending to make if she wakes him up in any crazy way. And so not only is she positioning herself, and it is, the scholars are clear that it is charged with some sexual tension. I think the author is doing that on purpose. We'll get to that in a little bit. But for now, it practically functions as the thing that would wake him up from a deep sleep after a night of celebrating the harvest.

He responds with the question, who are you, which makes a ton of sense given the moment, right? But I want you to underline that question. We're going to come back to that question at the very end. For now, we'll move on. It's a good practical question. If any of you have ever been out in the dark where there's no light pollution, I mean, it'd be lucky if he even saw her silhouette. Now, this is where Ruth goes a bit off script from Naomi's plan. Naomi says, you lay there, you wake him up, you wait for him to tell you what to do. That's not Ruth's style. And I like it. She's spunky. She is bold. She moves forward with confidence in the character of God and the character of Boaz. She does not wait to see what Boaz will do.

She takes center stage in this moment and goes above and beyond what Naomi had in mind. See, I think Naomi, at the root of it all, Naomi had marriage in mind for Ruth. And Ruth has something much better in mind for Naomi and for the family line. She's not just seeking a marriage, but she's also seeking him to function as the guardian redeemer, to take in both her and Naomi, to redeem the family land and to restore the lineage of her dead husband. This is a massively bold request that would require a ton of sacrifice and economic stress on Boaz in this situation. She takes the center stage. She goes above and beyond.

Now, just like last week, Ruth is asking Boaz to go above and beyond what the law required. Boaz was not required by the law of God to do any of this. There are things in the Old Testament that talk about the closest relative, but there's principles and there's laws and Boaz isn't required to do any of this. And so she's looking at the heart of God. She's looking at the spirit of the law and she's looking at the character of Boaz and she's inviting him to go once again above and beyond what is required of him. And to see the heart of God and to provide for them in incredible ways. She spent time with Boaz and she's seen the heart of God reflected in him and she's asking him to participate in God's redemption plan.

I love the terminology she uses. Again, not only is she spunky and bold, but she is witty. Look at this phrase, spread the corner of your garment over me for you are a guardian redeemer of our family. May this term spread the corner of your garment over me. It harkens back to a prayer that Boaz prayed over her in chapter two, verse 12, where he says, may the Lord repay you for what you have done. May you be richly rewarded by the Lord, the God of Israel under whose wings you have come to take refuge. Corner of your garment, same terminology. Ruth is asking Boaz to be the answer to the prayer that he prayed for her. He's saying, you prayed for God to protect me, to take care of me. You asked God on behalf of me to do that.

And now I am asking you to partner with God and be the instrument by which that prayer is answered. This is incredibly bold and creative. God loves to partner with his people to accomplish his redemption. It's the theme throughout the book of Ruth. Now, second application point I want to make, and I have to make it quick.

And it's an emotionally charged topic that has split churches all throughout our country. And so we're not going to get into the nuances of it. But throughout the book of Ruth, we see Ruth and Boaz partnering with one another and with God for the redemption of their family. But what I want to point out to you to this point in chapters two and chapters three is that Ruth is primarily in the driver's seat. She plays the lead role while Boaz plays the supporting role. Again, I don't have time to get into all of the specifics, but I just want to say that I think many streams of the church in America today might be missing out on some things that God wants to do in them and through them because they have limited the voice and leadership gifts of women in their communities.

Before the fall, God put Adam and Eve in the garden and invited them both to rule over creation together. Read Genesis 1 and 2 and look at what God invites Adam and Eve to do together. He gives them dominion over creation to rule it together. This is God's ideal. When heaven and earth were together, men and women were meant to work in harmony with one another's strengths. Ruth's strength and leadership does not weaken Boaz's ability to lead. It strengthens it. Boaz becomes a better leader as him and Ruth work together in their strengths. As we partner together with God and his redemption plan in the world, my hope and my prayer is that we can learn to create healthy spaces where men and women can learn to lead together in mutuality and submission to one another.

I believe this is God's ideal. All right, next emotionally charged, difficult topic. I really made it easy for myself this week. Scene 3, Boaz's response. And this is the crux of the script. This is what the author is leading towards. This is where the tension is all going. They've presented this sexually charged situation with a man in power over a vulnerable woman. And the author, the audience is wondering what is going to happen when no one is around. Right? We've seen what Boaz will do for Ruth in the public square. But what will Boaz do for Ruth when his reputation isn't on the line? When he can pretty much get away with anything he wants to get away with in this situation? How will Boaz respond? Verse 10, the Lord bless you, my daughter. He replied, this kindness is greater than that which you showed earlier.

You have not run after the younger men, whether rich or poor. And now, my daughter, do not be afraid. I will do for you all that you ask. All the people of my town know that you are a woman of noble character. Although it is true that I am a guardian redeemer of your family, there is another who is more closely related than I. I see the author setting up another cliffhanger for us. This is great. Stay here for the night and in the morning, if he wants to do his duty as your guardian redeemer, good. Let him redeem you. But if he is not willing, as surely as the Lord lives, I will do it. Lie here until the morning. So she lay at his feet until morning, but got up before anyone could be recognized.

And he said, no one must know that a woman came to the threshing floor. That would be awkward. Rumors would start. Gossip would go, would grow. He also said, bring me the shawl you are wearing and hold it out. I pause there for dramatic effect. Nothing weird is going to happen. All right. Bring me the shawl you are wearing and hold it out. When she did so, she poured into it six measures of barley and placed the bundle on her. Then he went back into town.

So again, one of the overarching themes of chapter three is the same as chapter two. God is in the business of partnering with people to bring about his redemption. Last week, it was in the public square where lack of generosity could have negatively impacted Boaz's communal image. But this week, it's in the secret place when no one will find out. No one has to know how Boaz handles the sexually tense situation.

This is the primary question the authors are wondering and Boaz continues to demonstrate his godly character and puts our fears to bed immediately. The first words out of his mouth address Ruth as daughter, probably immediately lowering her heart rate and making her realize that she is in the safe space that she thought she was in. He praises her for her continued godly character. He obviously believes she has plenty of other options for marriage. He says you didn't chase after. And this is probably the best textual argument for the fact that Boaz is attracted to her. He's like, you could have had anybody, but you chose me. And you chose me not only because of whatever feelings you have towards me, but you also sacrificially chose me because you know I am the person who can not only take care of you, but also Naomi and also restore the family lineage of your dead husband.

This is an act of sacrificial love on Ruth's part and Boaz knows it. And then Boaz uses the same adjective to describe her that the narrator uses to describe Boaz when he says that she is a woman of noble character. She's a woman of excellence in the community of Israel. Boaz isn't just looking at her as a widow in need of a husband, but he is looking at her as a peer. He uses the exact same terminology that others have used of him. He's saying this is a match made and nailed it. We nailed it. All right. Boaz ensures Ruth's safety and keeps the plan moving forward smoothly by keeping her there through the night because he doesn't want to send her home in the dark when it would be dangerous. But he wants to send her home a little bit early so that nobody else sees what's happening.

You all know what the what the saying says. What happens on the threshing floor gets recorded in Scripture for the entire planet to read. Now this is where we're going to have to move fast and it's important that we cover this topic delicately.

I think as we're charging towards this woman, this vulnerable woman putting herself in submission to a man who's supposed to redeem her family. And I think the author intentionally has put a breadcrumb in there for us to think about another story in the Bible. In Genesis, there's a story about Judah and Tamar. And it's almost eerily, it's eerily a similar situation. And I think the author wants it to be in our minds. And what happens, I don't have time to cover the whole thing. But essentially, Boaz is a he is of the lineage of Judah. Judah was in the position to be a guardian redeemer for Tamar, and he chose not to do so. Instead of providing for her and protecting for protecting her, you'll see in the story, he actually took advantage of her.

In some really uncomfortable ways. And I think when we put these two stories side by side, it helps us to get a glimmer of this theme that we've been covering back and forth. That God will get redemption done, whether we choose to participate or not. But there is a lot less collateral damage to ourselves and others when we do. Now, this is how God's redemption works, and it's beautiful and it's incredible. If you were to turn to Matthew chapter 1, which again, we don't have time to do this morning. We will see the genealogy of the lineage of Christ, who is the pinnacle of God's redemption story. All of God's redemption falls and hinges on the life, death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. And as we look at the lineage that led to Jesus, that led to the ultimate redemption plan for God's people, we'll see five women referenced in that genealogy.

This is not the normal practice. Normally, only male head of households were recorded in the genealogy, but Matthew records five women. Four of them were in sexually vulnerable positions, similar to our story today. Ruth was honored by Boaz in the dark when no one was around to see what could happen. Joseph, the stepfather of Jesus, honored Mary throughout their proposal and the engagement. When it would have been easy to be sexually inappropriate, he chose to honor her. Both of these women are recorded in the lineage of Jesus, but also Tamar and Bathsheba. These two women, on the other hand, were taken advantage of by men in power over them. The unthinkable was done to them by men who were supposed to be responsible for protecting them. And I believe their names are intentionally included in the genealogy of Christ, in part to remind us that God is in the business of getting redemption done.

Even when God's people choose to rebel against him for their own selfish gain. The statistics say that around 25% of women and 10% of men in America have been sexually abused. So I know there are many of us in the room that can feel the weight of these stories and are likely still carrying the scars of our own stories. What I want you to hear this morning is that God sees you, he loves you, and what happened to you was not his will for you. He wants to redeem your story. He wants you to know how much he loves you so much that he went to the lengths of offering up his own son to show you how valuable you are to him. You do not have to be defined by what was done to you.

You can be defined by what was done for you. Now, I'm not saying that if you just trust in Jesus, all the pain goes away and everything is sunshine and rainbows. We all know that that's not how this works. And if you've experienced this level of trauma, I would encourage you to seek professional help and the support of a loving community that you can trust. But what I am saying is that God is in the business of redemption. He redeems painful and hopeless situations in our lives. And his redemption isn't just for the situations we've created by our own sin, but his redemption is also for the situations that were created in our lives by the sin of others. God is in the business of redemption. He will get redemption done whether we participate or not.

And if people chose not to participate in God's redemption plan, and that leaves you in a place where you need to be redeemed to know that God is in the business of getting redemption done. Now, this is the most scandalous part of the gospel that I've been nervous to talk about all week, because I've walked with friends through abuse, and I know the level of heartache and turmoil it creates. But God also wants to redeem individuals who have committed sexual sin against others. David's story was redeemed by God even after his heinous acts against Bathsheba and Uriah. And I think the church in America has missed the mark on both sides of the pendulum. We've not held abusers countable, we've made excuses, we've blame shifted, we've covered things, and we've put other vulnerable people in position to be harmed, all in the name of grace and second chances.

But grace does not mean you don't experience the consequences of your decisions on this side of eternity. And on the other side of the pendulum, in the name of justice for the oppressed, we've ignored to proclaim and demonstrate the good news of the gospel to those who have been abusive in their past. If we truly believe the gospel has power to transform lives, then we should be looking for opportunities to show the love of Jesus to these individuals, proclaiming God's grace to them and inviting them to repentance and restoration. Anyone who fully acknowledges their sin before God and seeks reconciliation with those they've sinned against should be welcomed into the family of God. Anyone who's done anything. This does not mean we put them in situations where they can abuse again. It does not mean we expect victims of their sin to embrace them with open arms and no boundaries.

We should encourage victims to work through this process of forgiveness apart from any expectations or timelines because forgiveness is the thing that sets victims free. God will get redemption done, whether we participate or not, but there is a lot less collateral damage to ourselves and others when we do.

All right. How's it going to end? Cliffhanger epilogue. You guys, are you guys okay? I've been sweating that one out for a while. I don't have much time, so we're going to land the plane. Brian, you can go ahead and come up. The epilogue, which isn't really an epilogue because it's just another cliffhanger, but I couldn't come up with a better name for it. So, verse 16, when Ruth came to her mother-in-law, Naomi asked, how did it go, my daughter? Then she told her everything Boaz had done for her and added, he gave me these six measures of barley, saying, don't go back to your mother-in-law empty-handed. Then Naomi said, wait, my daughter, until you find out what happens, for the man will not rest until the matter is settled. Ruth heads back with another generous physical blessing from Boaz.

It's important I point out here that this is an answer to Naomi's prayer in chapter one. Naomi said, the Lord brought me back empty-handed. And Boaz, again, participating in God's redemption plan through his faithfulness, through his generosity, through his sacrificial love, he answers the prayer. And Naomi says, I'm empty-handed. And Boaz says, don't go back to her empty-handed. The Lord gets redemption done. She asked Ruth how it went, and was likely blown away that Ruth went above and beyond to not just pursue a marriage for herself, but redemption for Naomi and the lineage of the family. God gets redemption done, whether we participate or not. My final point that I want to draw out here. Remember I asked you guys to underline something? Jill's with me. Jill, what did I ask you to underline? Who are you?

All right, this is where it gets fun, and I don't have very much time, so we're going to have to do it fast. When Naomi comes back to Ruth, or when Ruth comes back to Naomi, I flip-flop those guys so many times, it's hard. Gals, sorry. All right. The English text, at least my translation, I don't know what your translation says. My translation says, how did it go, my daughter? What's interesting is that that question is actually worded more similarly to, who are you? It's the same question that Boaz asked of Ruth in the middle of the night. It's the same question that Boaz asks about Ruth in chapter 2. The translators assume that this is a fun play on words between the mother-in-law and her daughter-in-law, because of course Naomi knows who Ruth is, so she must be asking something along the lines of, who are you?

Are you Ruth, or are you Mrs. Boaz, right? It's like the intention behind the question is, how did it go? What happened? But I think it's interesting that the author points out three times in two chapters, Ruth is asked the question, who are you? And many people already assume they know who she is, based on where she comes from. But Ruth continually shows up and answers that question based on her character and a heart fully surrendered to God. So I think it would be helpful for us to ponder this question ourselves, who are we?

Who are we really, both in the public square and in the secret place when nobody else is around? Who are we? Not what is the external identity markers that we've embraced. Not the beliefs and morals that we've intellectually agreed with. Not the religious hoops that we've jumped through. Who are we really? Jesus says, by your fruit, you will, by their fruit, you will recognize them. First John says, if we say we have fellowship with God while we walk in the darkness, we are liars. Who are we? Do our actions, both in the public square and in the secret place, line up with how we would intellectually answer that question? I think this is a worthy question for us to consider this week. Where are we? Where are the inconsistencies in our lives? What things do we need to bring into the light of God's grace to be forgiven and redeemed? Who are we? When no one else is around. When no one's going to find out who are we.

May we not be a church filled with people who look really godly on Sunday mornings, but refuse to obey the principles of the kingdom of God all throughout the week. Who are we? Now, we've said throughout this series that the book of Ruth is the story of the whole Bible. We've talked a lot about the individual lives of Ruth, Naomi, and Boaz, but the reality is neither Ruth nor Boaz is the hero of this story. Yes, they pull up a chair beside the God that they have come to know and love, and yes, they say, I'm here to help. I want to participate. I want to receive your invitation to work out your redemption plan. But they, I'm sure, have their own cracked yokes on the ground. They have failed. They have fallen. They are not the heroes of the story.

The reality is not only is this story about Ruth and Boaz, but this story is about you and I before a holy God. This story functions as a foreshadowing of the gospel. All of us are like Ruth, desperately in need of redemption, and Jesus has made that redemption available to us through his sacrificial life and death. So I don't ask you the question, who are you, to condemn you. I ask you the question, who are you, to invite you, to bring the true, honest, raw answer to Jesus Christ, who will redeem it, who will not condemn it, who will receive you with open arms, because he already knows the answer to that question. Whether or not you're willing to answer it honestly or not, he knows the answer to that question. And the invitation is for us to bring the answer to that question to him, knowing that we will not receive condemnation, but that we will see forgiveness, grace, and reconciliation.

So I wanted to just end our time making sure that we didn't wallow in the inconsistencies of our lives, which I'm sure we all have, but to remind ourselves of the beautiful grace that Jesus bought on the cross. So Brian's going to lead us, and then we'll head out. As Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Sing that again. Sing that again. Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Oh, praise the one who paid my debt and raised his life up from the dead. Oh, praise the one who paid my debt and raised his life up from the dead. Oh, praise the one who paid my debt and raised his life up from the dead.

Because Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Oh, praise the one who paid my debt and raised his life up from the dead. Thank you, God, that you washed us white as snow. Thank you, God, that you washed us white as snow. You're mighty to save God. Thank you for it.

We pray that you would be with us as we leave this place today. We can be a picture of that hope to everybody that we had in our lives with them. Thank you for your love. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Go in peace, church. Thank you.
