SOLITUDE: The Quiet Place
2025-02-10
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MLr1yyHsJJU

Solitude is not a private, therapeutic place. Rather, it is the place of conversion. The place where the old self dies. And the new self is born. Solitude is the furnace of transformation. Without solitude, we remain victims of our society. And continue to be entangled in the illusion of the false self. Solitude is the place of the great struggle and the great encounter.

Church, good to not hear from you this morning. So glad you've joined us. Hey, I don't do this very often. Actually, I don't know that I've ever done it. But the Scripture says to outdo one another in showing honor. And I heard a story this morning that I think is worthy of honor. They have no clue that I'm sharing this. But my friend Mike up here on the front row, regular, almost every week, wheels his motorized scooter here to church. And this morning, his motorized scooter stopped working. And you wheeled yourself probably over a mile in a manual wheelchair to get here and be in the presence of God this morning. So I just want to honor you for that. I thought getting my toddler into the car was a difficulty. Hey, if we haven't met yet, my name is Ryan.

I have the privilege of being one of the pastors here. And this week, we are launching, as you saw from that hipster video we just played, that we are launching a new four-week series on the spiritual practice of silence and solitude. If you are new or newer to Canvas, this is a part of a larger series that we are doing over three years. We started it last year on the spiritual practices of the life and teaching of Jesus. We didn't think that hitting you with all of these at one time would be wise. And so we've spread them out. Last year, we started with prayer and fasting and with generosity. And so if you're interested in those practices and weren't here, by God's grace and the skill of our tech team, they are available online.

So if you want to go back and find those, we'd love to encourage you to do that. And at the beginning of this series, I did an entire message on the importance of practice-based discipleship. I don't have time to recap that entire sermon. I actually was planning on doing that last week, but we got a snowstorm. And so now I'm going to ask you that if you have questions about or are wondering about what practice-based discipleship is all about, that you kind of go back and find that. We'll put it in the newsletter this week. But just to make sure that we're all on the same page, I will do a small amount of recap. And I'll start by saying that I personally feel like much of American Christianity, what we call discipleship, is rooted in our intellect.

We have become consumed with learning about God, which is a great pursuit and a pursuit that the Scriptures encourage. But it's only one facet of true discipleship. Scripture makes it clear that we are to be doers of the Word and not just hearers only, not just to intellectualize ideas about God, but to allow them to transform us from the very inside of our being. And discipleship in the eyes of Jesus and in the authors of Scripture, it was a whole person endeavor. I heard a quote this week from a guy named John Ortberg, and he said, God is not interested in your spiritual life. He is interested in your life. And we have this way in Western American culture of separating our spirituality from the rest of our lives. And if we believe the Scriptures, the Scriptures are clear that all of our entire being is a spiritual being,

that we were created in the image of God, created for relationship with God. There is no separation between spiritual things and normal things. It's all God's. And so when discipleship just becomes about the mind, we really segment our discipleship into a way that it never was meant to be. It's a whole person endeavor. And for Jesus, discipleship was an institution that existed where people would follow around a rabbi, spending time with them, learning their teachings. Yes, learning their teachings intellectually, but growing in understanding and also modeling their lifestyle. Emulating their lifestyle. So in order for us to take this approach and contextualize it to American Christianity, we summarized in that message I just talked about discipleship by saying it's all about being with Jesus, becoming like Jesus so that we can do the things that Jesus did.

This really is a summary of what faithful Christianity should look like. But unfortunately, oftentimes, we've segmented faithful Christianity into the information that we learn and internalize. And the verses that we can quote back to people and the systematic theology that we believe, whether or not it actually transforms us into a person of Christ-like love. So in order for us to do this, we have to expand the discipleship process from beyond just solely being focused on the mind to being focused on the whole self. This is not a new idea. You guys probably will find this verse from Deuteronomy familiar. It says, Love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength. It's a whole person endeavor. Later, the Apostle Paul will pray this prayer. He prays this to the church at Ephesus.

He says, I pray that you would know the love of Christ that passes understanding. So there's this form of discipleship, this form of a relationship with Jesus that goes beyond just what we can mentally comprehend. We are whole people. These practices, we've picked nine. It's part of a larger church-wide curriculum that will go with our small group. So if you join a small group, you'll continue to learn more about these practices. But they serve as a holistic training routine aimed at helping us to do this very thing, love God with our whole selves. They help us do what Paul commanded. Train yourself in godliness. It's a whole person endeavor so that we can be conformed into the image of Jesus. This does not happen on accident. It is a long and slow process of regular intentionality, of bringing our whole selves before God to be transformed through the work of his spirit.

Now, we don't do the work. It's important that we distinguish this. We don't do the work. We position ourselves before God for him to do the work in us. Like I said, up to this point, we've talked about prayer, fasting, and generosity. Each of these practices help us position different parts of ourselves before God to be transformed into the image of Jesus. And this month, we will look at solitude, which is slowly rising up the power rankings of my spiritual practices. And that should say a lot to you because I am a millennial extrovert. That joke landed better when I wrote it down. All right, let's pray and get started. Father in heaven, thank you for the humility that this group of people give me by not laughing at my jokes. Thank you for your word, for your love.

That is for our whole selves, for our whole lives, not just for one segment of our life or one hour in the morning and one hour in the evening or one hour on a Sunday morning. That you care about all of it. God, may this study of and practice of solitude just be one asset in that endeavor. One helpful tool that allows us to position ourselves before you, to hear from you, and to grow into the Christ-like love that you are calling us to. God, may you transform us as people into your image so that we can be what Jesus wants us to be, a city on a hill, salt on the earth. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you want to turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 5, we'll be in Luke chapter 5, and then later we'll be in Mark chapter 6.

As you're turning there, a few months ago I was listening to the testimony of a girl by the name of Brenna. And Brenna had grown up in the church but had some really traumatic experiences and decided to walk away from God altogether. She's what many of us would consider a prodigal. And she had this period, this season of being a prodigal, of running away from God, of choosing to do the things that she wanted to do the way that she wanted to do them. And then she had a radical, actually multiple radical encounters with the grace of God that transformed her mind and her heart. And she repented and she turned back to God. And she ended up becoming a youth pastor. Now, in the midst of her conversion, in the midst of her radical encounter with God's grace, she still, because of her trauma and because of her past experiences,

continued to wrestle with deep mental health issues. She was diagnosed with bipolar and she wrestled with bouts of depression, dark, deep depression. And there came to a point while she was pastoring at a church, she was leading an entire youth group of church kids, that she came to the realization that she could not go on any longer. And she decided that that day, the day that she made the decision, that she was going to take her own life. She was going to go to the church office so that her husband didn't think anything was off. She was going to tell her pastor that she was considering resigning. She was going to go home so that she had more than enough time to complete the action that she had planned before her husband got home. She went to the pastor's office, told him, thinking about resigning, I need to go home.

He canceled all her meetings. And as she was packing up her stuff in the office, she put her backpack on and she turned the corner. And there standing in the doorframe of her office was a woman that she did not know very well. And that woman said, Brenna, do you need me to take you to the hospital? Brenna said, no, I'm fine. Thank you. I appreciate it. I'm good. And the woman continued and said, is there any belief in the idea that someone might be able to help you? Now, the crazy part about this story is this woman wasn't particularly close to Brenna and had no real knowledge of what was going on in Brenna's life. She was just a woman who had been faithful in prayer and was driving past the church, praying for Brenna, prompted by the Holy Spirit, and felt like she needed to go and check on Brenna.

That story saved her life. And I don't know about you, but when I hear stories like this, I am confronted with two very different emotions. The first emotion is the godly, sanctified emotion. And I am overcome with the love of God for us as individuals. He knows us. He sees us. He loves us. He cares about us each as individual children of God. I am overwhelmed. I was sobbing in my car as I heard this story. And yet, quickly, because I am a real person with a real life and I struggle with all kinds of sin, the second emotion that I wrestle with is envy. Where are these stories in my life? Why don't I hear from God like this? Why doesn't God use me in this way? Real people, real life. But the more I reflect on that second emotion, the more I think about that question and the posture of my daily life,

the more I am led to consider that the most likely scenario isn't that God isn't speaking to me or inviting me into stories like this, but rather that I'm just not very intentional about listening for his invitation.

Which leads me to the question, is there, might there be a practice from the life and teachings of Jesus that could position us to hear from God and to be used by him in ways that we've only ever dreamt of?

Anybody have any guesses? Solitude. Yes. Over the next four weeks, we will be looking at and inviting you to participate in a practice that is central. If you read the Gospels, this practice of getting away alone with God in prayer is central to the life and teachings of Jesus. And not only that, up until this point in Western Christianity, it has historically been central to the life and teachings of the church. Read the church fathers, the church mothers, read church history. Solitude was a regular practice of Christians throughout the century. I love how John Mark Comer puts it. He says, all over the life of Jesus and pretty much all of the saints and sages from every century, every era, and every stream of the church, here comes the condemnation, except for American evangelicalism, sings in chorus that solitude is foundational to the spiritual life.

Getting alone with God, emptying ourselves of our agendas and our thoughts and our things, and letting God speak directly to us has been foundational to the spiritual life. So, let's hop into Luke chapter 5 and see this example from Christ's life. Luke chapter 5, starting in verse 15.

So that crowds of people came to hear him and to be healed of their sicknesses. Jesus' ministry is picking up steam. People are being healed. Crowds are coming from miles and miles away to meet this Jesus and to see this power that he has over sickness. But Luke very intentionally puts this phrase in here for us to help us see a pattern that was true of Jesus' life. Even as his popularity was growing, it says, But Jesus often withdrew to lonely places and prayed. As the success, as the popularity of Christ's ministry goes viral, Luke intentionally gives us this summary statement about the pattern of Christ's life and the busyness of his mission. Listen to this, Jesus' mission on earth was to save the world from sin and death. Sounds pretty important, right? Sounds like efficiency, sounds like using your time wisely is a really important thing that you would want to have nailed down if your job in life was to save the world from their sins.

And yet he regularly and intentionally withdrew to lonely places to pray. This word in Greek, I taught the worship team. They were like, what does it mean? I'm like, well, just pay attention to the sermon. You'll find out. The Greek word here that is translated in the NIV as lonely places is oramos. Literally, it can be translated as desert or the desolate place or the wilderness. The idea here is it is a place where flourishing life cannot be sustained. No one lived in the desert. You only passed through the desert. It's a place, the only place, where you could be free from all other inputs or distractions. And as you read the Gospels, you will see that it seems to be one of Christ's favorite places. Jesus was not a hermit. He wasn't always in the desert, but he had this pattern, this cycle of going into, leaning into community with people who are needy and broken and who needed God's grace in their life and then withdrawing to solitude in prayer.

I love how Eugene Peterson paraphrases this verse. He says, as often as possible, Jesus withdrew to out-of-the-way places for prayer. Jesus made it an intentional practice to get away from the noise and the busyness of the world and of his ministry and of his occupation, his job, and he got away to be alone with God. Now, I know what you might be thinking. He was Jesus. Good for him, right? But not only is it an example that Jesus gave us, but it was an invitation that he extended to his followers. Mark chapter 6, verse 30. The apostles gathered around Jesus and reported to him all that they had done and taught. So this is after Jesus sends out the apostles two by two to go and to begin to do what Jesus did, right? They're in this process of being with Jesus, becoming like Jesus, and doing what Jesus did.

He sends them out to do what he has done. They have incredible success, right? They're seeing people healed. They're seeing people come to the knowledge of the kingdom of God. And they're celebrating this with Jesus. This would be a time, if I was Jesus, where I would be stoked and celebrating all that God is doing. But Jesus doesn't seem to be that concerned with their success. Look what it says in verse 31. Because so many people were coming and going, and they did not even have a chance to eat. He said to them, come away with me by yourselves to the Eremoth, a quiet place, and get some rest. So not only is the wilderness a place to get away and pray, but it's also a place to get away and rest. They went away by themselves in a boat to a solitary place, the Eremoth.

But many who saw them leaving recognized them and ran on foot to the towns to go ahead of them. So not only does Jesus model this pattern of solitude in his life for us, but he extends the invitation to his followers to come away, to a lonely place, to a desolate place. Solitude and silence is not an extra credit assignment for the spiritually elite. This is what I grew up thinking. I grew up thinking that good Christians, we read a verse of the day or a devotional in the morning. We pray before meals, and then we're good. Check. I did it. But there's so much more to the life of discipleship with Jesus that we're invited into. And we're going to talk about this a little bit more later, but it is an invitation. It is not a legalistic box for you to check.

This is an invitation Jesus is extending to each and every one of you to make space, to get away, to draw back. To draw back from the busyness of this life and to just clear your mind and your heart and let him speak. It's interesting to me that both of these passages come after a season of busyness and success and where crowds are coming in and where the world is drawing them into a season that they could be busier and busier and busier. But after this season of busyness and success, it's almost as if Jesus knows the thing they need more than anything is to get away and to recenter themselves in God's presence. To be reminded of their identity as children of God. To be reminded of what actually matters in life. It's almost like Jesus created us and he knows what we need for a flourishing life.

Success, busyness, and distraction, they all have a way of making us feel far more important than we actually are. Far more anxious than we actually should be. Far more overwhelmed by the difficulties of life. And solitude keeps us from that lie of the enemy. It keeps us centered on the thing that matters most.

We live in a culture whose currents, right, the currents of our culture are always pulling us towards busyness and efficiency. It's all about what you can accomplish and how quickly you can accomplish it. And when you aren't busy, there is an entire industry led by some of the smartest and most powerful people in the world hiding behind a six-inch screen in your pocket and a 60-inch screen on the most prominent wall in your house. And their entire pursuit, the smartest, most powerful, wealthy people in our culture, their entire goal in life is to distract you from real life all around you. We're constantly being ripped away into busyness, into distraction, to distract us from the life all around us.

Not only is this the norm of the culture, but if you consider to swim upstream of this, you would likely be considered a weirdo. It's no wonder we're exhausted, we're anxious, we're overwhelmed, many of us. We would long to hear from God. We would love to hear from God, but we don't even have the energy to have a meaningful conversation with our spouse and loved ones at the end of a long day. How are we going to hear from God who often speaks with a whisper when we're so exhausted and burnt out and distracted by the busyness of life? And I wrote that line for myself. Often I get home and I can't even engage my wife with a meaningful conversation because of how emotionally drained and exhausted I am. How am I ever going to hear from a God who often speaks with a whisper?

The question for us then becomes, are we content to be conformed to the patterns of this world? Or are we willing to make upstream decisions that position us to be transformed into a person of Christ-like love by the power of the Holy Spirit? To put it another way, to steal some language from Jesus, do we want to follow the crowd down the wide road that leads to destruction? Or will we choose the road less traveled that leads to life? If you're like me and you prefer to take the road less traveled, I think we should seriously consider the example and invitation of Jesus to get away to lonely places and pray. This won't be easy, nor will it be a quick fix. It will require us to declutter our schedules or at the least reclaim a healthy relationship with our devices.

And I know as a young person up here talking about this, you might think that I'm talking to the younger generation, but I've hung out with some of you boomers. We are not the only ones that have an unhealthy relationship with our devices. We have an unhealthy relationship with our devices, but we aren't the only ones, okay? Equal opportunity offender. Again, it's not easy. It's not a quick fix. It isn't one size fits all. You'll have to find a way to create the Eremos in your life based on your circumstances and your season of life and your personality. But we have to be willing, if we want to step off of the wide road that leads to destruction, the road that our culture's currents are pushing us towards. If we want to step off that road and into the narrow road that leads to life, we'll have to make intentional, difficult decisions.

Again, I quoted John Ortberg earlier. When he was a young, successful pastor of a growing church, he wanted to make sure that he was keeping watch of his soul. And so he went to an old mentor by the name of Dallas Willard. Some of you are familiar with his work. He is foundational in this idea of practice-based discipleship. And Ortberg went to Willard and said, what do I need to do to have a spiritually healthy life? Thinking he was going to get some profound knowledge or wisdom, Willard responded with this one line. You must ruthlessly eliminate hurry from your life. And this is the example and the invitation we see of Jesus when busyness and when crowds were coming all around. It was Jesus' natural inclination to withdraw from the busyness, to get away, to recenter himself in the presence of God.

It's his invitation to us when we are overwhelmed by the busyness of life, the distractions of life. To get away, to a lonely place, to rest a while and pray. Mother Teresa says it this way. She says, we need to find God and he cannot be found in noise and restlessness. God is the friend of silence. A God who often speaks in whispers. How will we ever hear him if we never quiet our minds and our hearts and allow him to speak in the way that he tends to speak? I'm not saying he only ever speaks in a whisper that he won't break through the messiness of your life. The distractions of your life. But if we want to be a people who regularly hear from God and respond to his invitation, I think we have to take this invitation of solitude seriously.

Solitude is one of the only things in the spiritual life that remind us that we are totally loved by God. Not because of anything that we do. Our presence, our presence, our showing up is enough. God loves us because he made us. Not because he needs anything from us. I had to wrestle with this experience a few years ago when we were discussing the merge between Canvas and Grace. I got, but the board at Canvas gave me a three-month period sabbatical to just kind of get away and see if I even wanted to do whatever they were going to decide to do. And three months, it doesn't sound that long, but when you've spent your entire adult life constantly with to-do lists and schedules and busyness and opportunities and things that had to get done,

three months of nothing that had to get done was problematic for my soul, problematic for my identity. Where do I get my identity from if I'm not doing something for someone that they need done? Efficiency, busyness, distraction. And a few months into that sabbatical, I was smacked in the face by this line of this modern worship song called Gyra. It says, I have never been more loved than I am right now. I wasn't holding you up, so there's nothing that I can do to let you down. This is what solitude reminds us of. When we withdraw away from the busyness and distraction and the noise and the efficiency of this world, and we just sit in God's presence, we are reminded that we are enough. That we are loved, not because of what we do, but because of who he is.

All right, if you've made it this far without totally writing me off, or starting to scroll on your social media feeds, or putting in your last-minute Super Bowl bets on DraftKings Sportsbook. Hashtag DKPartner. I'm kidding. I have to say, I'm not getting paid by DraftKings to say that, or you guys will write some emails. All right, let's begin to land the plane by getting specific about what solitude is and how we can begin to practice it in our life. I would define solitude this way. Solitude is intentionally making room for God free from all their inputs or agendas. It's an intentional action to get away from inputs and agendas and to position ourself before God. It is us cultivating in our own lives an Eremos. A desolate place, a faraway place. And most of us might not be able to make a desert happen,

but we can cultivate a space that's free from agendas and inputs if we try hard enough. Let's break that definition down. Inputs. What do I mean by inputs? Well, most, again, talking about writing me off, most of you in here who are extroverts, you probably tuned me out a while ago. No, solitude isn't an extra credit activity for spiritual people, but it definitely is a spiritual practice just for introverts. That's probably what you've been saying, right? It's not for me. I'm an extrovert. That's the introverts thing. You guys probably tuned me out a while ago. There's no way I'm spending extended time alone by myself. But my introverts in the room, you likely have been eagerly following along, sweet, pastor said Jesus commands me to get away from people. I'm in. I can't wait to send the text back when the group invites me out for the, you know, whatever.

Nope, pastor said I have to be alone. However, most introverts that I know love to be alone, but what they mean when they mean alone, I would not call solitude. Because most introverts like to be alone with inputs. They like to spend time with a great book or a great album or podcast, maybe some knitting needles or woodworking shop. But solitude is difficult because it's about eliminating all distraction from our life and making space to hear from God. This will make you extroverts feel a little bit better. Social scientists who studied this, they actually found that when they made a difference, when they distinguished solitude from aloneness, when they distinguished solitude as a place where there are no inputs or agendas, there was actually no greater preference for or enjoyment of solitude between introverts and extroverts.

Everyone hated solitude. Again, equal opportunity offender. The reality is almost all Westerners hate the idea of solitude. We are afraid to be alone with our own thoughts and with God. We'd much prefer to distract or numb ourselves than be confronted with the realities of our finite lives in the presence of an infinite God. Solitude is an intentional space that we create for God, free from all inputs. It's a space where we can learn to be naked and unashamed before God. It's Genesis 3. Adam and Eve realize that they are finite, that they are sinners, that they have rebelled against God, and he is infinite and holy and just and righteous. And instead of leaning into his presence and acknowledging who they are and what they've done, they run away and hide. Solitude is the invitation to come back to God as we are.

Naked and unashamed. In the presence of God, because of his incredible love for us. Cal Newport says this, he says, Solitude requires you to move past reacting to information created by other people. And instead, on your own thoughts and experiences, wherever you happen to be. I don't know about you, but this is something that is extremely difficult for me to wrap my head around. We're constantly reacting to outside information. We're constantly, anything in our mind and our heart is us processing information that's happening to us or problems that we're trying to conquer, and we're always working in angle. Solitude is about us being ourselves before God, wherever we happen to be. He's not asking us to come cleaned up and ready for solitude. He's just asking us to show up. All right, inputs. Next, agendas.

I grew up in a church culture that regularly preached the need for daily quiet time with God. Anybody else familiar with that terminology? A couple of us? Okay. Almost every Sunday. There wasn't a Sunday that didn't go by where we talked about quiet time with God. Now, cynics in the room might be thinking, wait a second, Ryan. I thought you said our culture has totally forsaken solitude. You grew up in a church that regularly preached for you to have quiet time with God, and now you're telling me that they never taught you to do this? Although we used the language of quiet time, it was far from the practice of silence and solitude. It was a good thing, a beneficial thing, a thing that I should have done and should have been taught to do.

But it was me coming to God with a devotional book, a verse-by-verse Bible study, a theological question that I was wrestling with and needed an answer to, or an intercessory prayer that I needed God to show up and answer. That is agendas. That is us coming to God with our agendas. I want to learn this thing. I want to be fed by this devotional book. I want this. I want that. It is us bringing our agendas to God. And all of these things are wonderful and right. But they are a time where we come to God with our agenda. We have something we want to learn, a question we hope to get clarity on, or a prayer request we want answered. And solitude is an invitation to something totally different. It is an opportunity for us to enter God's presence without an agenda.

We allow Him to have time and space for His agenda in our lives. We create space for Him to speak to us by His Spirit. And I'm concerned that much of American Christian discipleship is us coming to God with our curriculum, with our agenda, and our desired outcomes. And we don't give God much space at all to speak for Himself in our lives. How healthy would my relationship with my wife or my closest friends be if we were never alone together? Always in a crowded room. Or if we did get alone together and I came with a scripted list of questions to ask. Or a book to discuss. None of those things are bad. But if that was the only thing we ever did alone together was, Hey, I have a list of six questions I need to ask you.

And let's read three chapters of this book and talk about it next week. Sounds intimate, right? Solitude is an intentional space we cultivate to be with God and to listen to His voice with no other agendas. All right. Should we get practical? Okay. That's good. Probably a lot to digest if you've never considered this practice before. You might be thinking, this sounds nice, but I live in Winchester and not Galilee. Where am I going to find a desert? And when do I have time to go there? Right? It's a good question. It's a great question. And the reality is this concept of Ramos, it doesn't have to be outdoors and in the desert. It can be just a lonely place where you remove yourself from all other inputs or agendas. And this will be difficult.

Especially if you've never practiced it before. I heard a pastor talking about this. And when he preached it, he went to the creek and he got a mason jar full of creek water. And he shook it up at the beginning of his sermon and set it on the table. The water was murky. Right? There's all kinds of residue and things going on. And it took until the very end of his sermon for all of the residue to settle and for the water to be clear. This is often how solitude works in our lives, especially if we're not used to practicing it. We go away to a lonely place free. And we try and free ourselves from inputs or agendas with God. And you're constantly going to be bombarded with all of the thoughts and distractions and busyness of your life.

Did I put this in the calendar? Did I ask this person about that thing? And that's okay. It's okay. But we have to train ourselves to remove those thoughts, to let them be before God. Although I think extended periods of silence and solitude outdoors is a great goal for us to pursue, every one of us can create space and time in and around our house to get alone with God, free of all inputs and agendas, even if it's just for a few minutes. My current routine involves a comfortable section of my couch where I have to face away from the TV because if not, I'll be thinking about all the things I could be watching on TV. Real people, real people, real people, real lives. With my stage of life, I have to either get up early before Rory gets up or I have to stay up late after he goes to bed.

And in order for me to get up early, which is a struggle, you can ask my wife about how many times I don't, I silence the alarm. Silence is loose language because I'm like fumbling for it. And then I get it quiet and I usually set two alarms. So by the time I quiet the first alarm, there's like two minutes in between before the next one goes off. But in order for me to get up early, I found that I have to say no to staying up late scrolling or binge watching things or I'm never going to get up early. These are intentional decisions that I have to make. Sometimes I do it well. Sometimes I don't do it at all. I am not up here bragging about how great I am at solitude. I'm inviting you to come along on the journey with me.

You might have to limit your time of scrolling. You might have to say no to getting sucked into a new show that will immediately for me become a binge problem. Anybody else can't start a show without watching the entire show on a weekend? Okay, just me, great. You guys are really encouraging this morning. And I found like I used to always have a show that I was like wanting to get through. And I thought like, I can't not have a show. And when you get to a point where you don't have a show, what do you do? You go find one. You talk to your friends. What's the show that I should be watching? And I thought I'd be missing out on something. But I'm to the point where I'm no longer looking for shows to get sucked into because I know what it'll do.

And I know the value it'll add to my life. And it's not much. And it's keeping me from things that matter far more. I don't know exactly what it'll look like for you. Maybe you start by just turning off the radio or taking out your headphones on your commute. It can look a million different ways tailored to your personality and stage of life. But the one constant for all of us is that it will require intentional planning and sacrifice. You will likely have to say no to something else that isn't necessarily bad in order to say yes to something better. Like much of life with Christ, at first it will feel like dying to yourself. But at some point the scales will tip and you'll realize that death to self actually leads you to the abundant life that you were created for.

I love how Ruth Haley Barton puts it. Mercy, you and Liz can come up if you're ready. Forgot to give her a cue. I would have given her this quote as a cue. So now you guys are hearing that process happening out loud. Ruth Haley Barton says this. The invitation to solitude and silence is just that. It is an invitation to enter more deeply into the intimacy of the relationship with the one who waits just outside the noise and busyness of our lives. It's an invitation to communication and communion with the one who is always present even when our awareness has been dulled by distraction. It's an invitation to the adventure of spiritual transformation in the deepest places of our being. And an adventure that will result in great freedom and authenticity and to surrender to God that we have yet to experience.

Like I said in my intro, I think most of us in the room, we long for deeper intimacy with God. We long for spiritual transformation. We long to hear from God and be used by him in ways that we could only imagine. What if this practice of solitude from the life of Jesus is a resource on that journey that has long been ignored by our fast-paced, efficiency-driven, overstimulated, and overly distracted culture? What might you and I be missing out on by ignoring this example and invitation from Jesus? And what might we stand to gain by swimming against the currents of our culture and sacrificially saying yes to this invitation? Now, as we wrap up, I do want to make two things really clear. First, we mentioned it in Haley's quote, If you show up to solitude, show up to solitude because you want to say yes to the invitation of Jesus to get alone, away from the busyness and distraction of this world, away from your agenda of what you want God to do in your life,

and you just want to give him space to speak, if that's what you want to do, then solitude is an invitation for you to come there. But don't come there for any other reason. Don't do it because you think it'll make you a better person or a more sanctified Christian. Do it because you're receiving an invitation from the one who created you and loves you. Secondly, solitude is not a silver bullet for spiritual growth. We talked about infomercials a couple weeks ago. I don't want to oversell these spiritual practices. These are uphill climbs, all of them from fasting to prayer to generosity and now to solitude. They are all long, lifelong journeys and invitations that will slowly but surely over time conform us into a person of Christ-like love. You're not going to show up to solitude this week and then come back and be like, I just heard from Jesus so much this week.

He gave me a full paragraph. I wrote it down. This is a quote from God because I spent 10 minutes in solitude, right? It's not a silver bullet. Spiritual growth, it doesn't work like that. And spiritual growth is not our work, it's God's. Solitude is simply a space we carve out to encounter God, not just with our minds but with our whole selves. It's an intentional space we make for him to do his work in us.

I ask Marissa and Liz to lead us in a song of prayer that I think is at the heart of the invitation to solitude. It's a prayer for more of God's presence and more of his transforming work in our lives. So feel free to do a couple of things. Feel free to sit and let this prayer be prayed over you. Feel free to stand, to join in and sing. It's a repetitive song. If you don't know it, it won't be hard to learn. Or maybe you take this time to think about your schedule this week, to think about your habits, your patterns, your lifestyle, and think about what it would take, what decisions you would need to make in order to say yes to this invitation.

Just like any time you get an invitation to do anything you find value of, you often have to look at your schedule and say, this is something I want to prioritize. And in order to prioritize this, I'm going to have to say no to this or this or this. This is an invitation from Jesus. So take this time. Use it to be prayed over, to pray, or to think about what things you might need to do to intentionally make room for God, free from all other inputs or agendas. As I'll be back up to dismiss us in prayer. I just.
