PTW Service: LOVE
2025-10-20
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Z4Fitt984Y

*music* I know, I knew that would get a rise out of you guys. No, I, Ryan's talked about it multiple times. One of our core values is uniting for the sake of the gospel. And we were, I was actually in the car this morning, we were listening to a song. I believe it's, don't quote me on this. I think it was Phil Wickham. But this idea that Jesus, you are above every other name. Your name and position shadow them all. So one of the core values of Canvas is uniting for the sake of the gospel. And we can agree that Jesus is the most important thing. So it is my honor and privilege to announce my brother, Sam Rogers, will be preaching for us today. He's the pastor of Hope Valley Church. He's no stranger, but I want to introduce you for all the people.

So Sam, I want to welcome you and thank you for ministering to all of us. So my good friend and brother, Sam Rogers. Welcome, everybody. Thanks for being here. Am I on? If I need to do anything, we good? I'm just going to keep talking. There it is. All right, now we're back. Okay, before we get into the sermon, can I get into a completely unrelated, weird quirk of my personality? Just so we can all get to know each other better. Okay, here it is. I get really excited about really mundane, like, gadgets and stuff, or even just, like, conveniences. Does that make sense to anybody? Okay, like, my brother and I were traveling, and my actual brother, not my brother over here, and we're traveling. You guys ever seen it at hotels? Some hotels have what I call a pancake printer.

Have you guys seen this? Am I good? Am I standing somewhere weird on the podium? You ever seen this? It's like a machine at, like, a hotel, like, you know, continental breakfast, and you literally say, like, I want two pancakes, and then it just starts, and two pancakes shoot out the side. Has anyone seen this? It, like, goes, it has, like, batter. It has, like, a reservoir of batter, and it goes, bloop, and it goes on a conveyor belt, and then it goes between hot rollers, and a pancake sticks out. And I'm a grown man. I'm 40, thank you. I'm 41, and I have totally printed more pancakes than I needed, because I just wanted to, I stood there, and I was, like, how fast do they come out? If I put four, do they just, like, can I pick it up and aim it at people?

Like, they go, this triggers? Okay, so, like, and I'm, like, I'm texting people, like, have you guys seen pancakes? Okay, my brother is the same way, and so we were geeking out. Here's what triggered that totally, like, it's not even a sermon illustration, okay, guys, this is a random story about, yeah, okay, here's what it is. I walked up, and I had my water bottle, and I was thinking, where am I gonna put this? And I was, like, maybe on the floor, and then I saw there was a cup holder. There. I've done a lot of preaching, guys. I've never seen a cup holder on a podium before. Maybe they're there, and I don't notice them, but I felt myself get, like, unjustifiably excited. This is so cool. Like, I've almost paused to take a picture and sent it to my brother, who's back in Ohio, and be like, the podium has a cup holder.

It's like a little holster. It's like, I can just, you know what I mean? And just keep going. All right. The sermon is not about pancakes or water or modern conveniences. Sorry, that was just a complete diversion, but I think we're good now. We good? All right. So, I'm gonna talk, just as we get open here, just about where we've been and where we're going, all right, as you guys have been. I believe, in the last four weeks on the topic of community, right, the practice of community, which is great, right? You're talking about becoming committed family, right? Committed family, sharing life, joys, confession together. Love that, right? In our own house churches at Hope Valley, we've been talking for about, what's today? Week 10 on church relationship, which we've been defining as the holy work of being the body of Christ.

Because when you do the hard work of relationship, okay? You guys know what I'm talking about. Okay, when you do the hard work of relationship, it's a holy work, right? Amen. Because when my brother and sister offend me or disappoint me or aren't there for me in the way I want them to be, and I go to them, and we talk it through and we work it through, we are knitting the body of Christ together. Right? We're literally taking the body of Christ on this earth and we're knitting it together and making it stronger, right? Stronger muscles, stronger ligaments, right? None of that can happen if the moment I'm slightly unhappy with you, I go find a difference. Right? In fact, what we're doing is we're telling the body of Christ apart when we do that, right?

So it's a holy work. And that's, I think, really motivating for me personally, right? Because sometimes it's like, oh, I'm so tired. I don't want to go to church this morning. Or like, you know, I'm going to go to church, but I'm going to avoid that person because they're just too much. Guys, we know who we're talking about. Yeah. Emily, this is an intervention for you, Emily Child. So we forgot the banner. I'm sorry. You've been causing a lot of problems here with what I've heard. That's why Ryan called me. No, I'm joking. I'm completely messing. For those of you who don't know, Emily and I work together. We share an office at the rescue mission, so I'm picking on her a lot. Sorry. Right, but so it's a holy work, right? And that's a motivation for me to do it.

And so the community practice you guys have been talking about, I'm sure has been, I haven't been here for it, but, you know, I've seen the notes. And it looks like some good stuff. And so today starts the next series. I think it's four weeks. Is that right, Corey? Is anyone else hearing a tremendous amount of, like, weird echo off my mic? Is that? Okay. Is that what it is? Do you want me to get back this? Oh, bring it closer. I never have a mic on my face. Is that? That was it. Excellent. Thank you for that tip. I remember that now going forward. How's that? That's even better, I think. All right. So this is the next four weeks is this topic of service, right? Which I think the leadership of Canvas has rightly paired with community because if you're going to be in community, you have to get ready to serve.

Right? You have to get ready to serve if you're going to be in community. In fact, if you go, I want to be in community, but I would also like to not serve, that's not going to work. Right? One of my favorite quotes from any TV show ever is, you're not in the mood, get in the mood. Right? If you guys know, then you know. Okay? So service and community definitely go together because if you're going to be in community, then you have to get ready to serve because the people in the community with you are going to have needs. Right? Like, hey, can we be in close relationship and you never need anything from me ever? That would be great. First of all, it's not even close relationship, really, if we're talking about it.

Right? That's the kind of relationship I can have with like a random person on a subway. That's not real community. Okay? So we're going to start on the topic today. And as we begin this topic today, I want to get you thinking of service. This is kind of the core of today's message. I want to get us thinking of service as really both the natural, okay? Really both the natural and the intentional result of something. Okay? There are some results that are both, they partly happen naturally, okay? And they partly happen intentionally. Right? So if I love somebody, there are some ways in which I will relate to them that will just kind of happen naturally because I love them and I don't have to think about it. Right? And then there's other ways I have to relate to them that have to be very intentional.

And only by having both the natural and the intentional outflow am I really bringing full shape to it. Does that make sense? Okay? So we want to think of service as having both of those things. It has both a natural and an intentional, it's both the natural and the intentional result of something. Okay? And so service is a spiritual practice. You might say, well, is it a spiritual practice? I mean, couldn't like, you know, anybody do it? I mean, depends on what we're talking about by service, of course. But service is a spiritual practice because when we serve, we are doing the actual work of aligning our behavior to the character of Christ. Right? It's a powerful statement. Corey already said it this morning. Mark chapter 10, verse 45. This is just saying he goes, for even the Son of Man did not come to be served.

Right? But to give his life and to serve. Right? And give his life for the ransom of many. Right? And so think about like the weight of that with the coming from Jesus. Right? Master and king of the universe comes to the earth not to be served as he rightly ought to be. Okay? And then we talk about foot washing already. That was giving me a whole tangent over there, like on the sidelines. Right? Because think about when Jesus washed his disciples' feet. He was like, if you don't let me do this, you don't have any part of me. Part in me. Right? And then he's like, by the way, I dig this so that you'll remember that because his serving isn't greater than his master, if I get down and wash your feet, you're getting even lower.

Right? Right? Okay. Okay. We're hearing it. So when we serve, it's a spiritual practice because we're doing the actual tangible work of our behavior to align our behavior to the character of Jesus. And of course, being like Jesus is the goal of spiritual health and maturity. It is. Right? Spiritual formation. I'm going to use this term a lot today. And I'm sure we've had some various ways of defining that. Just for simplicity, I'm just going to talk about spiritual formation as growing in spiritual health and maturity. Okay? So things that are spiritually formative in my life are the things that will grow my spiritual health and grow my spiritual maturity. And you might go, okay, well then, what does maturity look like? And the answer, it looks exactly like Jesus. Right? So I don't just want to, it's multilaterally, right?

It's not just like, well, I'm following Jesus. I should be like Jesus. It is Jesus has demonstrated for me, if a human being were doing everything perfectly all the time, what would that look like? We don't know what that looks like. Right? The closest thing we have is Corey. No, I'm joking. I'm joking. Corey's like, don't put that wig on me. Don't put that wig on me. No, no, no. Right? But Jesus is that example. Right? So it's almost like God saying, okay, watch this. I'm going to do it myself. Right? I've taught you. I've been telling you and telling you and telling you how to live as a mature human being. Okay, I know it's a struggle. You know what? I'm just going to do it myself and you watch. This is what Jesus did.

Right? And so Jesus is the perfect measure of maturity. That's what Ephesians 4 is all about. Right? If you go read that. Okay? So spiritual formation is growing in spiritual health and maturity. And Jesus is that perfect image. We're looking for a reference point. So how do you know, how do you measure spiritual health and maturity? That's a great question. Right? How do I know that I'm healthy, that I'm maturing? What's that process? How do you know when you're maturing? Right? Because it's a process. Okay, we can joke all day long, but the reality is our whole life here on the earth will be a process of growing in maturity and getting closer and closer to the mark. Right? And so how do I know when I'm doing this? And how do I know when I'm doing this?

Right? How do I know when I'm regressing? By the way, if you do not think that you can spiritually regress, let me like shout from the rooftops and warn you today, I have watched it happen. I've watched it happen. And I wish I could say I've watched it happen a handful of times. And I wish I could say it was only people that I didn't have a lot of confidence in. Right? If you don't think you can spiritually regress, if you can lose the knowledge of God that you once held, if you can spiritually deform, you can. So we should just be sober about that. Okay? It's not like, you know, like when people are rock climbing, they have that little thing. I've never rock climbed. Maybe there's rock climbers in here. Do I look like I rock climb?

Come on, guys. Come on. No, it's not happening. If you lay the wall down, I can do it. Right? But I've watched people do it. And it's strenuous work. Right? And what I've noticed is like they kind of go up and they kind of like lock on. Right? They lock on. So like if they fall, they don't fall all the way back down to the bottom. Right? They've got a... Okay. Spiritual formation is not like that. It's like free climbing. Okay? You can fall. You can fall all the way back down. So we want to just be sober. I'm not trying to make you paranoid. Okay? It's not going to happen without you really noticing unless you just decide to blind yourself. Okay? But don't be paranoid, but be sober is what I'm saying. Okay?

So how do you know when you're spiritually maturing? How do you know when you're spiritually regressing? Is it how good you are at following God's rules?

I know everyone's like, I'm not answering. This is a trick question. I can see it in your faces. Okay? We might like... Okay. We might know intellectually that, well, that can't be the right answer. But I'm not talking about what you know. I'm talking about what you act like. Right? Okay? Because what I actually know is what I do. Anyone here have teenagers? Or have had them in the past? God bless you. We were all teenagers, too. We know how they are. By the way, I was a youth pastor for 13 years. I absolutely love working with teenagers. It sounds like I dislike them all the time. Like, I just give them a hard time because I love them so much. Right? But they're the worst. And we were the worst, too. We were the worst, too.

Right? And one of the things teenagers always do is you tell them something that they clearly don't know because they're not doing it. And what do they say? Oh, I know. I got two boys. My two oldest are 16 and 18. They're both at Hanley High School. And I won't drop names right now in case anybody's watching online. But these guys, Jonathan and Alexander. But these guys are, right? Really common thing, you know, is that, right? I give them instruction. I know, Dad. My mom, my mom, their mom gives them instruction. I know, Mom. And I will walk into the room, and I'll do this. My man! I'll do it just like that. If you knew, what am I talking about? I'll say that. You know, sometimes, you know, Dad, you just got to get a little, you know, you got to get

a little. Amen. You got to, you got to, it's just a wake up. I'm not smacking them, okay? This, I'm just clapping. I have found this is all you need. Just a little, just a little, right? Hopefully, I'm not messing up the sound system with all the clapping. What I'll do, I'll go, my man, if you knew, what are we in here talking about? Your mom and I are bored? We just figured, let's go rehearse everything that our children already execute perfectly on. Just for the sake of making them more frustrated with us than they already are by the fact that we exist in the house and provide everything that they need all the time, 24-7, for the last 18 years. Yeah. Like, what are we here for? And I'll say to them, I'll go, if you knew, I wouldn't be talking.

If you knew, you'd be doing. So, why am I bringing that analogy? Because we, guys, we're just big teenagers. That's all we are. All right, so we can laugh at a teenager and go, oh, yeah, man, there's 17-year-olds that way. That's you. You just do it better and less obviously because you've gotten smarter at how to pass the buck. All right, I'm just like, we're just keeping it real, okay? I'm talking to myself, right? Someone hold a mirror so I can just say this to myself, right? And so, what we really know is what we really do. Okay, so how do we know that we're maturing, right? So, we might know, well, of course, the answer isn't, you know, that I follow up God's rules, but is that how we behave? I must be, you know, well, I've not been beating people and cheating on my wife and

embezzling money from my company and, you know, all those kinds of things. So, I must be spiritually maturing. So, we kind of, you know, because we're behaving well, we convince ourselves that we're spiritually maturing, right? Or is it how consistent we are in spiritual disciplines? Guys, by the way, all these are good. Should you follow God's laws and rules? 100%, yes. Should you be on top of your spiritual disciplines? Absolutely. Can you do both of those things perfectly or nearly perfectly and not be growing spiritually at all? Yes. That's what we're getting at. Okay? So, how do you know that you're maturing or regressing? As with anything, if you use the wrong measure, you're going to get the incorrect results. So, that's what we're going to get into, okay? So, one of the things that I've talked about already is we tend to measure our performance.

Okay? We measure our performance. This happens because we focus on the how of spiritual formation, and we're not focusing on the why of spiritual formation, right? Well, this is how I spiritually, you know, grow and mature, okay? But why? For what? What's the point? You ever wonder the why? Or are you just absorbed with the how, engraving yourself on how well your performance looks, right? We look at how well we're doing the things, you know?

So, for example, I'm going to church every Sunday, I'm praying, I'm reading my Bible, I'm not being a terrible human being in my conduct and behavior, I have no criminal record, I haven't been drunk since my 20s, whatever, right? All right. What's it like to be in a room with you? Do the people that you love know that you love them? And how do they know that? Right? So, we often look at the performance, we look at how well we're doing the things. And we often make this mistake because our, we are thinking of a why, but actually our why is selfish. And when your why is selfish, then you begin to think of your performance, because if everything's all about me, then all I got to do is just make sure that I cross my T's and I dot my

I's and I mind my P's and Q's, right? And then I should get all the blessings of God flowing into my life and be happy, wealthy, and blessed, right? Because our why is selfish. Spiritual formation is not about keeping you out of trouble or just making your life better.

In other words, your spiritual formation isn't just for your benefit. I'm saying again for those in the back, your spiritual formation is not just for your benefit. If this was all about you, if this was the you show, okay, you would just teleport to heaven the moment you got saved. Right?

Like, honestly, you ever ask yourself, like, what are you still doing here? Okay? Spiritual formation isn't about keeping us out of trouble. And it's not just about blessing our lives, making our lives better. Well, I should pray and read the Bible because my life is better when I do that. I mean, that's true.

But is that really the point? Like, so it's not. You haven't caught sarcasm yet. You haven't picked it before I'm laying down, everybody. No, that's not it. That's wrong. Okay? We think it is, and that's why we tend to think about our performance, right? Spiritual formation is actually about shaping us into the image of Christ so that we can partner with him in restoring the world. Let me say it again. Spiritual formation is about shaping us into the image of Christ so that we can partner with him in restoring the world. Okay? So, your spiritual formation is actually for the benefit of other people. And by the way, this isn't like a new idea. It's actually like the first three chapters of Genesis. This guy knows where I'm going, right? What were Adam and Eve's job?

Right? You go, oh, gardening, animal husbandry. Yes, yeah, yeah. But what was their job? Let us make male and female in our image. That's what God said. Why? Why is God putting his image on the earth? We're partners. And managing his creation. And in the kingdom of heaven, it's about advancing the gospel and rescuing this world and its people from darkness and death and bondage. Right? How effective will I be at that? How effective of a partner with Christ will I be in his work if I don't look anything like him? If my values aren't aligned with his values, if my goals aren't aligned with his goals, if my character's not aligned with this character. Right? So, God is doing a working you because he wants a working buddy. You can think of it simply like that.

Right? And so, that means that my spiritual formation is, yes, I mean, okay, is it going to benefit me? Yeah. Like, as a bonus. You know? Will my life be better if I'm less of a jerk? Yes, it will be better if I'm less of a jerk. Should I just stop being a jerk for my own benefit? No. What about other people? Right? Okay. All right.

So, we tend to measure the performance, right? And that's where we're getting it wrong. What we should be measuring is the fruit. Okay? Fruit's a lot harder to fake, everybody. Okay? Fruit's a lot harder to fake. And it might help you if you think about this and just the way you observed it in other people's lives because, as we all know, we are way better at evaluating other people than our own selves. Okay? That's just true. Okay? Let's just embrace that part of our humanity together and go, yep, we're gonna own it. We are? Okay. So, sometimes it's helpful to first look at this or where you've seen it elsewise because it's more obvious. How many people in this room, just raise your hands, you've known somebody where all their spiritual disciplines are on point

and they don't look or act anything like Jesus in your life? Anyone ever met those people? Oh, I've been going to church every Sunday for 30 years. Really? You ever think that? You ever think that? Pastors have all kinds of thoughts. I meet people and I'm like, oh, don't advertise that. Please don't share your church name. I'm not the only one, right? How is that happening? It happens because of what I'm talking about here. You're measuring performance, you're not measuring fruit. Okay. We're gonna go to Matthew chapter seven. You know what's interesting about fruit? Fruit does a lot of things. One of the things fruit does is fruit identifies what plant you're looking at. Right? Do you know if I look at like a apple tree, like an orange tree, I don't know, limes, whatever.

You know, I can't, I mean, I'm sure there's differences in leaves and barks and stuff. I don't know all that. I know it's an apple tree because I go, there's apples on it.

There's a lot of, oh, we're in an orchard. How do I know that? Because there's apples everywhere. Right? Matthew chapter seven, verse 16. That's what Jesus said. He said, you'll recognize them by their fruit. Right? You'll recognize them by their fruit. Are grapes, are grapes gathered from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? I love when Jesus gets like all that just straight. Like, guys, think about this. When you get grapes, where are you getting them off of? Right? He says, in the same way, every good tree produces good fruit, like a bag tree produces bag fruit. Right? A good tree can't produce bag fruit. Neither can a bag tree produce good fruit. Right? Think about that simple analogy for a minute. It's pretty hard to fake fruit. Plus, fruit actually tells you a lot of other things about the plant.

Right? If I see a tree growing with some nasty apples on it, I'm not going to conclude, I bet that tree's real healthy. I bet it's doing, isn't that weird that that good healthy tree is growing these nasty apples? Right? No, exactly. So fruit is also an indicator of the health of the plant. Helps you identify the plant. Helps you know how healthy that plant is because fruit is a kind of an automatic result. Right? Apples don't, apple trees aren't sitting there working hard at making apples. That's just what they do. Right? And so we can say and we can claim and we can act whatever we want, but the fruit reveals the truth of what is really happening inside of us. You guys know that I can preach a good sermon and go home and be a terrible husband? I'm sorry if you haven't found that out yet. That actually happens more often than you might know.

But it's true. Right? And I can show up to Bible study and I can correctly and accurately exposit the text of Scripture and pray together with you and it's good and go home and abuse my children. Now, those are extreme. Right? I can sing all day long about God's grace and patience and mercy in my life and then I can go be an unnecessary jerk to the waiter at lunch today. Okay? So the fruit identifies what I'm looking at. Right? I can say and claim and act whatever I want, but it's the fruit of my life that tells you what's really happening inside me. Okay? Who picks the fruit off the plant? This goes back to the selfishness aspect. Right? Like, does an apple tree sit there and grab apples and like, ooh, these are so big.

So the fruit of the plant, right? Think of this, the fruit growing on me, I'm not the one picking it and eating it. You are. Right? So fruit isn't something I pick off my branches, it's something you pick off my branches. You can't judge how, you can judge how healthy a plant is in part by the fruit that it produces, right? So again, if I'm thinking about this like just bigger picture and my spiritual formation and the work I'm actually doing and the work I'm letting the Holy Spirit do inside me, right? This goes back to the idea that my spiritual formation isn't for my benefit and I also can't really judge my own fruit. Anyone ever heard somebody defend themselves where you're calling out, you might not be using language, but you're essentially calling out the bad fruit

and they're like, oh no, man, my fruit's so good. They're like, your apples are kind of gross. Like, no, man, those big old red delicious apples are so juicy. They're like, no, they aren't, right?

So as I'm measuring my spiritual health and maturity, right? One of the ways, one of the critical ways that's measured is actually by the way other people are experiencing me. So this is all important things to think of. What kind of fruit then should be growing on our branches? It's a good question for us to ask. Here's one question we can ask to aim at that question, right? What kind of fruit should be growing on our branches? Am I becoming more like Jesus in my character and in my action? Right? Not just in my following rules. Am I doing the Christian thing? Am I doing the things? Right? This is one of the reasons, can I just go off script for a minute and circle back to the, okay, I'm trying to be good guys.

I'm sorry. But if we go back to the community thing, right? This is one of the, this, okay, community, hard work relationship. You know, one of the reasons why we don't deal with conflict and hard relationship issues in the church is because we're too busy producing fake fruit. Okay, here's what I mean by fake fruit, right? I'm gonna go to church and be a nice Christian and be super nice to everyone all the time and when you ask me how I'm doing, I'm gonna tell you I'm too blessed to be stressed, right? And when there's an actual issue in a relationship, I'm not gonna talk about it with you because after all, that's not what real Christians do, right? We just be super nice and forgiving all the time and never call out anything ever at all

until eventually, of course, I can't take it anymore and then I silently, quietly leave this church and go to another church and continue to talk to the circuit.

All because I've been working on fake fruit. I think, right? I read the fruit of the Spirit and we're gonna get there. I read the fruit of the Spirit and I think, oh, okay, I have to really work at being patient and merciful and kind and self-controlled and, you know, not actually being those things. I'm just gonna fake them really good. When we forget, apple trees aren't working at being apple trees. Right? Apples grow on apple trees because that's what the apple tree is. So if I'm looking at the fruit and trying to work backwards so I can manufacture it, then none of it's real. All right, that's my little diversion. So am I becoming more like Jesus in my character and my action? You know, Jesus called out elephants and runes. Jesus actively worked

to destroy and tear down fake peace in order to build real peace. Right? 1 John 2, verse 6 says, the one who says he remains in him, remains in Jesus, should walk just as he walked. So this is one of the fruits in my life that I'm looking at. And by the way, I don't just wanna self-evaluate that. I'm listening for feedback. I'm humbling myself. Right? For other people, is being around Sam starting to feel a little bit more like being around Jesus or not? Right? Man, I've known Sam for 10 years. He's become so much more patient, so much more self-controlled, so much more faithful, so much more service-oriented. Right? You're seeing, and we know these people too, right? We talked about some bad examples, but we know these people too. We're like, man,

that's spiritual fruit. Right? It's fruit. Okay. Another one, is my personal spiritual formation blessing the people around me? Not just am I improving as a person in my character, in my behavior, in my actions, right? But are the people around me being blessed by my spiritual formation? So if we go back, is my time in studying the word in prayer, for example, is that making my wife's experience of her husband more positive? Is that making my children's experience of their father more positive, right? Are they being blessed by the work that I'm doing internally? Right? And then are the people around me? Is my spiritual formation manifesting in service to other people? back onto our topic today. It's a really important question for us to ask. Is my spiritual formation manifesting in the lives of other people

in service to them? So, how do we produce fruit? As I've said at the beginning, fruit is both automatic and intentional. right? And here's what I mean about automatic, right? If I, if I'm really receiving the love of God in my life, right? Like just, when I get alone, okay? When I get alone and there's nobody watching, if I really am beginning to soak in and receive and be internally and be internally transformed by the love of God and the truth of God in my life, there will be things in my behavior that aren't honestly, automatically just are happening. That's true. Okay? Right? Just like, by the way, you leave a plant alone and it's gonna make the fruit, but you can cultivate it and make the plant more fruitful, right? Right? This is why

we don't just like throw seeds out and like leave them alone and come back in a year, right? This is why there's farms and everything else. So the plant's gonna grow it, but how good will the fruit be? Right? So there's an automatic part and there's an intentional part, right? As we more fully receive the love of God, His love pours out of us. Okay? How you treat others then is a direct indicator of your own receptiveness to God's love for you. I have to think we need to think about that today. Okay? Because here's what I don't want you guys to hear. I want you to go home and be like, oh man, now like this burden of work. You guys with me? Like man, now I gotta keep up appearances even more, right?

Now I gotta work even harder. Okay, guys, you know like the more that I've actually just gotten good at loving my wife, the less work our marriage is? Right? The more that I let myself slow down and think about how much I love my children, the less hard it is to be a halfway decent dad, right? It's not like go work a whole bunch more. It's completely reorient yourself here for a minute. Okay? How I'm treating other people is a direct indicator of my own receptiveness to God's love in my life. So there's an aspect of that that's gonna be automatic, right? Because the aim, which is the first, let me just say this.

every single person I've personally encountered in seasons of my life where I've been the same person, but every person I've encountered that is unforgiving, that is selfish, as I've gotten to know them I've realized how much they have no idea how much God loves them. It's not most, it is 100%. and there's a direct causation there that I want to just realize today, right? Because the fruit of the Spirit, this is Galatians 5, 22 and 23, the fruit of the Spirit is love and joy and peace and patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Paul's saying this is what flows out of you when you're in the Spirit. This is what flows out of you when you're letting God's love into your heart, right? And this is a, there's a practicality of this because part of it

is you sit here and sit in the morning and you open your Bible when you're alone and you're in your small groups during the week and you're hearing these wonderful truths about God's love for you and you're saying, I just don't know if I can really believe that.

So you're closing yourself off, you're walling yourself off, you're not allowing God's love to really permeate you as a person, right? And then you're over here going, I'm gonna like stiff arm God's love over here because I was hurt too bad, I was abused too bad or I'm too hung up on my own self-image to believe that I'm lovable and then I'm gonna go over here and I'm gonna try and be really loving and gracious and kind and patient with people and I'm exhausted and I would go, yeah, that's exhausting. That's impossible. It's unsustainable. But instead, if you go to God, how does he say as a child? As a child, not as a hurt, traumatized adult with bad parents. As a child. You're in a place where you can just believe and receive his love.

And now, his love is flowing out of you. You're not working at it. Because it's, you get what I'm saying, right? And so service becomes this automatic natural product. One of the things that's beautiful about children is, and I'm, I'm younger, so I'm eight now, but I remember even, you know, you know, there was like a 10-year period where we were in diapers nonstop. We had five kids. And one of the things that really struck me about children, especially when they're very small, and you guys have probably seen this too, have you ever seen like a two or three-year-old like kind of question if you really love them? I've never seen it happen. Ever. Never, any, never did any of my small children go, I don't know, Dad. I'm just kind of really wrestling with like

the believability of that statement. You know, I mean, I'm not sure that I really deserve to be loved by you. They don't have that problem. You know, you pick up your little one, you say I love you, and they're like, okay. They just believe you. And so then these little children come and run to Jesus, and they're like, stay away from Jesus, and Jesus goes, no, no, no. First of all, he's super mad when they do that. And he's like, let them come to me because the kingdom of heaven belongs to people like these people. Right? And so you've got to come to him as a child and just go, hey, I love you. And you go, okay. And you soak it in. Right? And as you soak it in, it begins to transform you.

And so there's a tremendous amount of service and these kind of works and these kind of actions, right? They will flow out of you. They just will. Right? And if they're really struggling to flow, I would say go back to the source and let's start working on that part. Right? Because the aim and the destination of the spiritual journey is to become love. Guys, like, when it's, guys, let's just fast forward to the end, okay? When all this is done. Right? What is Paul saying in 1 Corinthians 13? When it's all done, what's left? Love. When all the work is done, right? When all the restoration of the world is done, how will we spend our time in eternity? Love and relationship with one another and the Father. Right? So let's just, like, aim there now.

Because the aim and destination of the spiritual journey is really to become love. That my inner journey of formation would pour out of me actively in service to others. Right? And I love this verse in 1 John chapter 4, verse 7. It says, dear friends, let us love one another because love is from God and everyone who loves has been born of God and knows Him. And also in 1 John chapter 3, verse 18, it says, let us not love in word or in speech, but in truth and in action. If you really want to dig into this, this is a pro tip, okay? Pro Bible study tip. Just go get all up in 1 John. Like, just roll around in it. You know, listen to it, put it in your earbuds while you go on a jog

or if you're like me, just sit and drink coffee in the morning and watch other people jog. Because jogging, not relaxing, watching other people treat their bodies healthy, kind of relaxing. I wasn't built for jogging, I was built for cuddles. That's what I always tell my wife. But I love that verse, right? Because so many times, let's just be honest, we're loving in word and in speech and we're not loving in truth and in action. And John, you know, describes the Last Supper and John is like essentially snuggling with Jesus at the Last Supper. Right? Throughout his entire gospel, John only refers to himself as the disciple that Jesus loved. I don't think that's because John had like an inflating ego. It's just because John knew who he was. Right? John definitely is an apostle

that like latched onto this and understood it. And then you go and read like, I mean, he's probably like 70, 90 years old, somewhere in that range when he wrote 1 John. Right? He's like a lot of time to think about this. And you go read that and he's like, let me talk to you about the love of God and what it really does in your life. Right? So it says in verse 18, chapter 3, let's not love just in word or in speech, but in truth and in action. Right? And so, what do we do? Right? How do I produce this love? Like I said, how do I produce this fruit? Okay, so part of it's gonna be automatic, the other part's gonna be intentional. Here's the intentional part. Okay? Start where you are.

If you're hearing this and you're going, I need to go volunteer for an organization. I mean, okay, sure. You know, our rescue mission volunteer coordinator is right here in the front row and she's not a completely unlikable person so you should come talk to her after church service, right? Yeah, that's cool. That's cool. Right? Right? But again, you can go and, and I've seen this, you can go and volunteer and feed the homeless and the poor at the rescue mission and still be a jerk. Still go out to a dinner and be rude to the waiter and still go to Walmart and be rude to the cashier if there is one there. You know what I'm talking about? Okay? Start where you are. The mundane, ordinary, familiar interactions with others. Okay? Start where you are.

Okay? You really want to go, all right, man, I want to dig into the Spirit of God, receive His love so that some of us just starts, it just starts pouring out of me. I'm not even trying. It's just happening. But now I really want to hone it, right? I want to go from like a wild apple tree to like a really well-tended apple tree that's like an orchard and it's like really good fruit, right? Okay. How am I going to do that? And a lot of times we think, well, I got to go do some big thing, right? Well, I'm going to put some big project together and we're going to have this huge impact for one day so I can tell myself that I've started to serve people. That's not going to change anything, guys.

That's not how you hone it. Okay? If you cannot love your family, your neighbors, your friends, then every other show of love is just that. It's a show. Okay? You know what's like really easy? I could forgive every person in this room significantly easier than my own brother. Right? It is a lot easier to be nice to you guys than to my teenage times when they're annoying me. Right? It's a lot easier to come and go and volunteer somewhere and do a thing and then go home and I have no idea who my next door neighbor is, what their needs are, what they're struggling with. You guys see what I'm saying? Okay? The real hard work is in the mundane, not flashy, no one's going to take a picture of this and share it on Facebook

to show how charitable you are, right? The mundane, normal, everyday interactions. When I'm getting to know other people in ministry and I want to get like a sense of like, do I trust this person well enough to actually get involved with them in ministry? I try to make sure that we go and do really mundane things together where people would be very comfortable being rude. I do. I'm on purpose. You know? You know the most things like let's go out to coffee and dinner. I'm like, I have a secret agenda the entire time. I know everyone goes out to coffee and dinner. I'm going to watch the waitress. I'm serious. Right? Because the real levity into the Holy Spirit working in my life is that it just is happening. It's not put on. Okay? So if you can't love

your family, neighbors, right? Okay? Let's start there. You don't need to go join an organization or program to do this. This might sound counterintuitive coming from the guy who's the development director for the Wing Chester Rescue Mission with our volunteer coordinator in the front row. If you're already doing well in these areas, please come volunteer. We need you. We do. We do. Yeah. Yeah. We do. Okay? So I'm not saying... Okay, both and. Can we say both and? Can we take a... Okay, okay. But you don't need to go join an organization or program to do this. Okay? You can't go, oh, I'll go... Oh, I'll be more service-oriented. I just gotta go find someone to volunteer. My man. Do you live alone? Is there no one in your house? Do you have no siblings?

Do you have no friends? What are their needs? Do you have no church family? How's the church doing? Is it struggling? Are the resources down? Do you know? Right? You're enjoying the fruits of the ministry. Are you participating in the planting to make those fruits a reality? Right? There's all kinds of like just mundane things. Right? I know mundane is not a sexy word, but it's pretty accurate though, right? It's like just the ordinary stuff. You know? So, when you can do this with people, I'll close on this. When you can do this with people, yeah, we're gonna go ahead and wrap up, but when you do this with people, okay, where there's not gonna be a benefit back, that's one of the ways that you know as well. I'll close on that. You know,

Jesus said, if you only love people that love you, right, what credit's that to you? He's like, you know, even terrible people do that. Right? That's what he said. But love people and serve people that can't repay you. And then you'll actually be acting like me. That's what he said. Right? Let's have that heart and that attitude today. I'm gonna close this up and we're gonna receive communion together. I think I'll hang for that. Is that good? Oh, no, no, no, no, no. No, we're gonna trade off. We're gonna trade off. So let me go ahead and close and pray and pray. I'm gonna have Corey come up and he's gonna lead us in communion this morning. So, Lord, we just thank you for your word to us today. God, I pray that you would teach us.

Lord, that you would teach us what these things mean. Lord, help us to open our hearts to you so that as your love and your power flow is into us, God, that that would flow out in service to the people around us, that our service wouldn't be put on, our service wouldn't be performative, but our service would be the honest, natural, good fruit of a life and a heart that is filled by you. Lord, our desire is to be like you in every way. We need you, Lord. Soften our hearts. Meet us where we're at. Take us to that next step of growth and maturity. Lord, we thank you for these things. We thank you for your word. And Lord, most of all, we thank you for your love which sustains us, which birthed us, Lord God, and which carries us every day. We thank you for all these things, Lord, in your name. Amen.
