Revelation with Dr. David deSilva
2026-06-27
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5NZLg7DRsLY

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

Good morning, everybody. Go on in the auditorium if you're out in the lobby. I appreciate you guys getting up early on a Saturday and coming in. I fully expect, I don't know. Thank you, I'm very happy to say, I'm very happy to hear you, I'm very happy to say there's 22 churches represented today. They're probably not all here yet, but hopefully it'll be, you know, help us really, what's sometimes a difficult conversation between churches about a book that has a lot of different, people have a lot of different strong views about. And so, you know, we're going to have a lot of things that are going to have a lot of things that are going to have a lot of things that are going to be able to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things.

So if you have a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to be doing with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things that are going to do with a lot of things.

Father God, thank you for bringing everybody together. I pray for those that are still on the road. I pray for those that are in Venezuela and in the Middle East and are going through all the crises in which we'd love to see your hand displayed. And I pray that each of us, as we try to map the Bible to the world around us and see in Revelation how we deal with tribulation and wars and rumors of wars, I just pray that you would give us your insight. And let us see you in the midst of it. Focus on you in the boat with us, not the storm around us. Thank you for this day and our power to help us to focus and hear you more clearly. In Jesus' name, amen. All right, so, my official introduction.

We are delighted to welcome Mr. David DeSilva, Dr. David DeSilva. He is the Trustee's Distinguished Professor of New Testament and Greek at Aslan Theological Seminary, an ordained elder with the Global Methodist Church, the author of over 40 books, primarily regarding New Testament texts and culture, many of which are on sale in the lobby. He's worked on major Bible translation projects for the Common English Bible and English Standard Version, created video resources and mobile ed courses for faith life. His book, An Introduction to the New Testament, has been nurturing Christians in English, Arabic, Chinese, and Korean. Dr. DeSilva and his wife, Donna G, live in Port Charlotte, Florida, where he also serves as an organist, choir director, and choir director at Port Charlotte Global Methodist Church, and we're immensely proud and privileged to have you here with us today.

We really are. Thank you very much. Please welcome Dr. DeSilva. Thank you, Ken. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ken. Thank you to everyone at Canvas that has made this such a nice welcome, starting with a lovely dinner last night. I had a chance to meet the staff and some members of the board. Thanks for being here and looking into this challenging book with me. The approach that I am, I'll just put it this way, I'm from New Jersey, right? So, the approach that I'm trying to sell is somewhat different from that which is most popularly known out there. And if you take nothing away beside this, take this. There's value in reading Revelation alongside John's own congregations and thinking with them about how they would have made sense of this word because it unlocks challenges that Revelation poses to us

that we would tend to miss if we only approach Revelation the way the writers of books that actually sell approach Revelation, namely as a roadmap for the end times, whether that be the 19th century, the 20th century, or the 21st century, they've been bestsellers in every one of those centuries. Now, I have wrestled with Revelation, and in part, I've been in love with Revelation since I was 13 years old. I was a strange kid. I'm a strange adult, let's be honest. But I first read Revelation when I was 13 years of age, after I'd read through the Gospels and Acts. Revelation was gripping. Its fantastic and mysterious images, its cosmic scope, its astounding pronouncements about the stakes involved in keeping or failing to keep its word. Revelation was well-crafted to sink its hooks into the reader's mind.

As I sought guidance for understanding this word, and therefore having a chance at keeping this word, I found that the people with whom I conversed about Revelation tended to have one of two reactions, with very little in between. The first is exemplified by the pastor of the Episcopal Church in which I was raised. He was always open to discussing the faith and the Scriptures with me. I found him to be a great encouragement throughout those teenage years. But on this occasion, he admitted he had very little exposure to the book. So he took me to the church library, sat me down with the last volume in the Old Interpreter's Bible, and essentially wished me luck. The second response is exemplified by my maternal grandmother's younger sister, whom I simply called aunt. Though raised Baptist, she had joined the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

And she knew exactly what Revelation was about from beginning to end. She read about it constantly. And my display of interest, which in retrospect was a bad choice on my part, but my display of interest to her prompted a steady flow of conversation, sharing of literature over the space of a decade. In one setting, Revelation was beyond the purview of the professionals. In the other setting, it was the interpretive key to the whole Bible, the focus for study on the part of every active layperson. In both settings, Revelation was a kind of Pandora's box. In the first setting, the tendency was to keep a lid on it. Maybe we'll take a few peeks at the redeemed in the New Jerusalem on All Saints' Day. But for the most part, the contents of Revelation are kept safely locked away.

In the second setting, every church member becomes a Pandora, eagerly throwing the box open and allowing its contents to overrun their world. They chase the beast in this or that political figure. They follow the whore to this or that country. They see the gallop of the four horsemen in this or that series of news briefs. Either way, I believe we lose the witness of John's voice in our churches. Where Revelation is not read or studied regularly, John simply remains mute. Where Revelation is avidly consumed as a playbook for the end times, John's voice in which the interpreters are always inevitably living, John's voice also goes unheard. This time, trumped by the interpreters who use Revelation to speak of things about which John never imagined. In the process, the interpreters and their audiences lose sight of those things

that John did passionately seek to communicate to his churches. As people get caught up in the imagery of Revelation and try to find answers to these questions, they often fall headlong into what I would consider be some basic mistakes, forgetting some of the most basic and important principles of studying the Bible. In regard to Revelation, I find many popular speakers and writers and the many more who follow them who have been led astray by three basic fallacies, three myths, if you will, about Revelation. And this is going to hurt. Myth number one, Revelation is all about us. We often forget, in our rush to turn to Scripture, to hear a word for us, which is a good thing to do, but in our rush to do that, we forget that all of these texts originally spoke a word for them,

for communities of faith removed from us by at least 19 centuries. We are the secondary beneficiaries of the pastoral guidance initially intended for them. John gives us some cues that should serve to remind us as attentive readers that this book is not in the first instance about us. Specifically, John signals that Revelation is to be read as a letter. After the introductory paragraphs, the first three verses, in which John doesn't speak in his own voice, but rather in an impersonal voice that reminds us of the openings of certain books of the Hebrew prophets, John's own voice sounds out in the fourth verse in words that recall the opening of other early Christian letters. John, to the seven churches that are in Asia, grace to you and peace. The standard formula with which ancient letters began,

sender to addressees, greetings, is clearly present. John even uses that modification of the standard greeting that is already familiar from early Christian letters written by Peter and Paul, grace to you and peace. This is a critically important reading cue.

John is writing a letter addressed explicitly to seven real communities of Christians in the Roman province of Asia, now in western Turkey. This is reinforced by the divine command that John hears, write down what you see into a scroll and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamon and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea. This naturally implies that John intended his letter to be understood by them, to shape their perceptions of their everyday realities, and to motivate a particular response to their circumstances. The pervasive use of the number seven in Revelation suggests that the seven churches are in some way representative of the achievements and the challenges facing churches across the Mediterranean in the first century and across the globe now, such that the words addressed to them speak to churches beyond that circle.

Nevertheless, these seven churches are seven real churches facing particular difficulties and situations, whose response to their world John wanted to affect profoundly. A grounded and responsible reading of Revelation began disappointing with the second coming of Christ. All three approaches are based on the assumption that by prophecy, John primarily indicates that he is communicating predictions about specific events that will yet unfold at some point in his first audience's future, and that this is the interpretative key to the book. They differ only in terms of the time frame of the fulfillment. What is prophecy? This, the slides aren't changing on the screens. Well, that's why there's a handout too. Anyway, is prophecy essentially prediction? If Revelation is a prophetic word, does that mean it is a book of predictions that must be fulfilled at some point in history?

To answer this, I'm just going to keep advancing my own slides because it makes me feel better. To answer this, I would turn to the prophetic utterances of the Hebrew Bible and to the phenomenon of prophecy within the New Testament and in early Christian worship. While such prophecy could include a predictive element, it was also, and perhaps primarily, a declaration of God's action in the present and an announcement of God's evaluation of the present actions of his people, diagnosing problems, calling for realignment with God's values. Prophecy is essentially a word from the Lord breaking into the situation of the Lord's people who need guidance or encouragement or a call to repentance and recommitment. Prophecy was also a regular experience in the worship life of the Pauline churches. The new pouring out of God's Holy Spirit on God's people

resulted in the renewed possibility of hearing God's voice given utterance by the Spirit through the mouths of those who were possessed by the Spirit. While there are certainly elements of prediction involved in some prophetic utterances, such as we can find from Agabus in Acts, the primary element appears to have been edification, the revelation of God's perspective that invited a radical reorientation to one's circumstances, to one's practices, to one's pursuits. This certainly emerges from Paul's own understanding of what prophecy is for when the prophetic gift is working at its best, as we read in 1 Corinthians 14. In John's own situation, Jezebel, I'm sure that's not her real name, right? Who names her kid Jezebel? But Jezebel's own activity as a prophet doesn't involve prediction. It involves teaching in regard to the boundaries of acceptable Christian practice,

although in her case, those boundaries are considerably wider than John would understand them to be. In Revelation, what we typically call the seven letters to the seven churches are a prime example of, I would suggest they're better labeled, the seven oracles to the seven churches, the seven prophetic words to the seven churches, because after the command given to John to write down the oracle, the actual message to each church begins in a manner that recalls the prophetic formula, thus says the Lord from the Old Testament. For example, these are the words of the Son of God. The risen and glorified Lord speaks a word to the churches through the prophet John, affirming their strengths, diagnosing their weaknesses, calling them to faithful action, threatening judgment upon those who are recalcitrant and promising favor for those who are penitent and faithful.

In short, they do precisely what so much of the prophetic writings of the Old Testament sought to do for the communities of Israel and Judah. Where a biblical prophet speaks about the future, he usually limits the prediction to the immediately forthcoming future, not the distant future. Yet forty days, and Nineveh will be destroyed. There will not be dew or rain three years, but according to my word. John remains within this range, seen in his emphasis on the imminence of the confrontations and events that he merits, his conviction that he speaks about what must soon come to pass. The modern prophecy expert holds that everything presented in the Bible as a forecast of some future event must be fulfilled at some point. If the prophecies of Revelation do not match historical events or figures during the first or second century,

they must at some point have such a match. This conviction, this conviction, however, ignores the primary purpose of prophecy, which is not to give hard and fast statements about an unchangeable future, but to evoke faithful response. Jonah proclaimed, Forty days more, and Nineveh will be destroyed. In response to this vision of the future of a larger, invisible world. And they set the context of the seven congregations from a fourth interpretive approach that has been prominent in the long history of interpreting Revelation. I'm referring now to the idealist approach, which could also be called the spiritual reading, the allegorical reading. This idealist approach doesn't read Revelation primarily as a collection of predictions, like the historicist, futurist, and preterist approaches. Rather, it approaches Revelation as a text that uses symbol, vivid imagery, and dramatic action to express transcendent truths

that are valid in every generation. It essentially reads Revelation for timeless truth communicated symbolically about the cosmic battle between good and evil or the trials that must be overcome by the human soul. In so doing, however, the idealist approach also violates John's own perspective on his message that it is imminent and therefore a special timeliness for his congregations, not timeless. In this way, the idealist reading also overlooks the close correlation of Revelation's primary symbols with the political and economic realities that characterized the Roman province of Asia. The challenges of those congregations. Now's a good chance. Grab a granola bar. Perhaps the first and most obvious thing they would see would be many, many people who did not share their convictions about God and God's Christ. An often overlooked challenge for early Christians is the bare fact

that the vast majority of people around them have little or no place for the God of Israel or his crucified Messiah. They might acknowledge this God as a tribal deity of a particular people on the fringe of Rome's empire, but certainly not as a deity as important, imposing, or relevant as the Jews had historically made their God out to be. If they acknowledged Jesus at all, it would probably be as an executed revolutionary, a failure at best, a shameful criminal at worst. The lack of confirmation of the Christian's worldview in the attitudes and practices of their neighbors who lived, no doubt, often happily, without a care for the God of Jesus the Messiah was undoubtedly a constant invocation to question the correctness of their own convictions that enjoyed so little social reinforcement. Another prominent facet of the life

of these cities, and indeed the corollary of the first, involved the many cult sites of the traditional Greco-Roman and local gods and of the emperors, the representations of Roman imperialism. Ephesus was famous throughout the Mediterranean world for its temple of Artemis, acclaimed one of the seven wonders of the ancient world by frequent travelers, a source of great civic pride and a focus of civic identity. The dimensions of this temple were staggering, 425 by 225 feet, four times the footprint of the Parthenon in Athens. Its roof was supported by a forest of 127 columns, 60 feet high. The story of Paul's visits to Ephesus in Acts 19 provides some insight into the connections between a famous temple, the tourist economy, exemplified by Demetrius the silversmith and the production of silver souvenirs of Artemis and civic pride.

And it also shows us the way in which the proclamation of the Christian gospel intersected in a hostile manner with these at every level. The Acropolis of Pergamum was studded with prominent cult sites of the traditional Greek gods. A vast altar dedicated to Zeus surrounded by columned porticos and all sitting upon a raised marble platform crowned the brow of the hill overlooking the territory below. Just above it on the hill stood a temple to Athena which overlooked a vast theater carved into the side of the hill. A stage level of that theater halfway down the hill a temple to Dionysus stood in close proximity to the theater whose productions were often connected with the worship of that God. On another slope of the Acropolis sat a large temple sacred to Demeter the goddess of the grain harvest

with a central altar and stadium seating along one side. A temple to Hira the wife of Zeus stood over the large gymnasian complex on the lower Acropolis. Alongside temples to traditional gods stood temples and other cult sites dedicated to the goddess Roma and to the emperors. In Pergamon a temple was built to honor Roma and Augustus as early as 19 BC with construction starting a decade earlier winning for that city the title of temple warden in Greek neo coros of the imperial cult. This coin minted under the emperor Claudius shows the facade of the temple with two central pillars removed to reveal the cult statues within. Roma on the right extending a wreath of victory over the head of Augustus. In Ephesus the deified Julius Caesar was worshipped in a sacred enclosure alongside Artemis in the

civic forum the political district of the city. The city also erected its own temple to Augustus and Roma in the center of that civic forum. Toward the end of the first century Ephesus erected its own temple a magnificent temple to honor Domitian and his family the Slavian household on a raised area overlooking the civic forum. This raised area was extended artificially with barrel vaulted arches to support this grand structure and its courtyard. An ornate altar stood in front of the temple and colossal statues of Vespasian Titus and Domitian stood within. The remains of this cult image whether it's Titus or Domitian is disputed suggests a statue that once stood 24 feet high. This temple dominated upper Ephesus and finally won that city regional recognition as an imperial temple warden male koros city as well. The

site of all of these temples remains an ever present invitation into another story, the public story about the nature of Roman rule. According to John, this public story that constantly surrounds his congregations is incompatible with God's perspective on Roman rule. As this is a critical element of Revelation's word to the churches, we're going to give it more detailed attention in our next session. For now, what's most important to recognize is the fact that early Christians were a distinctly minority report in the midst of a population that oriented itself around the traditional Greco-Roman gods and that located itself quite happily within the story of Roman rule. The significance of this never impressed itself on me until I spent two months in Sri Lanka where Christians account for only 7% of the population, a deeply religious population.

Almost 70% of that population would claim to adhere to Buddhism with perhaps 15-16% following Hinduism. For the converts or children of converts to Christianity in that setting, the prominence and the pervasiveness of Buddhist statues and shrines and the visible signs of personal devotion to Buddha that stretch from those shrines to the marketplaces where people buy floral garlands to honor statues of Buddha in the same places they buy their produce, their cell phone minutes, and whatever else. All of that serve as a constant reminder to those Christian converts of their own or their family's departure from the worldview and from the story held to be true by the vocal majority of their neighbors. The Christian moving from his or her apartments into the public spaces of Ephesus would also see everywhere the signs of trade and

flourishing economic markets. Pictured here are the street leading to the harbor and the large commercial forum or agora of the lower city. The harbor at Ephesus now silted up after centuries of neglect was once a major port in the eastern Mediterranean with an endless stream of merchandise coming along trade routes from the north and from the east to be shipped out to ports closer to the center of the world above all to Rome itself. This offered the urban Ephesian and residents of other major cities tied into the network of trade in the province many opportunities to plug into the local economy or the transportation industry thus securing their own slice of the Roman pie. Christians in any of these thriving cities would see many families living normal perhaps even better than average lives and would

thus see much that would be desirable for themselves and for their own families. The prosperity promised by Rome and the possibility of sharing in this prosperity is a particularly important aspect of the situation of these congregations. The lure of wealth has sunk its hooks quite deep for example into the mouths of the Laodicean Christians who can boast of their own prosperity as participants in their local economy while failing to recognize their deep poverty in Christ's eyes as John Caesar. No doubt the hope for economic prosperity also provided the main motivation for developing a theology that could accommodate eating food sacrificed to idols something that John identifies as a feature of the message of rival prophets active in several of these seven congregations. ...to ask if we are to enter into the context and in private

and to speak of their neighbors of a man whom a Roman prefect had Christians experiencing. ...to ask a man whom a Roman prefect had Christians experiencing. Eastern Roman Empire in some form or another. First, they were participating in their city's life and economy. This would require some level of associate's religious practice, that is, into some acknowledgement of idols and worship of the traditional gods, to put a stumbling block before the people of Israel so that they would eat food sacrificed to idols and practice fornication. I have this against you. You tolerate that woman Jezebel who calls herself a prophet and is teaching and beguiling my servants to practice fornication and to eat food sacrificed to idols. ...are Jews and are not but are a synagogue that I have loved you. Many feel pressure from their neighbors

who do I also know that you are enduring patiently and bearing up for the sake of my name. Neighbors encounter exactly and only the same pressures that their non-Christian neighbors encounter because their lives are no different. The Christians in Sardis and Laodicea seem to pose a serious problem for John precisely because they are so untroubled by what is going on around them and have become so alive but you are dead. I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. Yet you still have a few persons in Sardis who have not soiled their clothes. I know your works not merely with a pastoral letter, not just with prophetic oracles, not merely with a pastoral letter, not just with prophetic oracles, but with an apocalypse, a text that we played out before the

eyes of their imagination. We'll be able to hear you and we're recording it. So if you could just come to the mic and ask the question, I'm sure all the answers are here. I'm sure all the answers are here. Will those to whom I gave five dollars earlier to ask easy questions, please come forward.

Revelation as prediction, and a and 18 as Jerusalem. ...coach tends to read Revelation in terms of the history of the oppression of the church in the first three centuries up to the legalization of Christianity under Constantine which completely resets the board for Christians. There we go. There we go. We're warming up. We're warming up. So for the different views that you had on it, are these all exclusive views, like if you hold this one you can't hold these ones, or are there some that combine in some ways? Sure, good question. So you can't be a preterist and a historicist. You can't be a preterist and a futurist. But you can be a preterist and an idealist. Or you can be a historicist and an idealist. And I would just point out that the approach that

I'm promoting is not any of the four. It's actually more of a let's listen to revelation with the first audiences and find out what sense they would have made of it, how it would have challenged and stretched them. And on that basis, think about how it challenges and stretches us. Don't have a cool name for that yet. But it has to end an if, obviously. Good morning. Thanks for coming. I've heard more than once the claim challenging the unique exclusivity of Christ. And I appreciate that you bring up the polytheism of the day because I've heard, oh, well, the Egyptians had a God who was born of a virgin, died and rose again, a Son of God. Jesus is a copycat. Whoa, hang on. Right, the Roman God, the Dionysus, Mithra, I've heard of these

before. They're all contemporaries of Jesus. He copied their model, the template of their Son of God, born of a virgin, rose from the dead, like, hang on. Can you adjust that? Because there's an exclusivity element that's at stake where, where does the sovereign Lord really is sovereign and exclusive? compared to these, I call them subordinate gods, right? So, it's a great question. So, and I'm just answering off the cuff here. The first thing that comes to mind is, when you have a pantheon of dozens and dozens of gods, you have a whole bunch of patterns and paradigms that are available, that doesn't mean what comes later is a copycat. It would be, I would say, a matter of unavoidable coincidence, and when you have this many stories about this many gods, there's going to be

overlap with other cultures' stories about their many gods, and eventually, monotheistic religions' stories about the one God. It's inevitable statistically. The other thing, though, that comes to mind is that the Christian gospel doesn't speak into a vacuum that addresses needs that human beings have recognized for millennia by that point. This isn't exactly hitting your question, but that's typical to speakers, right? They answer the question that they're capable of answering, and they try to make it look like they're actually. But dying and rising gods are in everybody's mythology in the ancient world. And I think that really says we mortals are, and these dying and rising are under a different name, and Dionysus becomes in the first century. these are the religions that people in the first century go to because the big temples and the big

civic religious festivals, they take care of the city's relationship with the gods, but they don't give me hope of transcending death. But if I go into that cave and let the blood of the bull sacrificed to mithras pour over me, I am initiated into mithras's life-giving power on the other side of death, or whichever mystery cult. And all that says to me is Christ provides the answer to the crying need that people have exhibited in these multiple ways for centuries before his coming. Does that kind of satisfy? Does that satisfy you enough for nine in the morning? That's good enough. Go for it. It's okay. Maybe you should just stay up here. I have to teach public speaking this fall to some students, so maybe this is practice. Now, there's an element of mystery that

remains that may be appropriate, but I don't have it quite articulated perfectly in maybe nobody does or should, but thank you. I didn't have the words for it. I kind of knew, I couldn't articulate it, so I needed, yeah, you covered it without tying a perfect bow on it, but yeah, it's fine. It wants me, it encourages me to study more, like dig deeper into the Greco-Roman space, because that's not what I study normally. Decent answer, three and a half stars. Thank you. So, the verse is right here in front of us, and I was intrigued when I was reading your book about how we interpret being either cold, being hot, and I just wanted to could elaborate on that, because for me, it was just so eye-opening.

thank you for that softball pitch. So, it's very common to hear that bottom verse preached this way. Jesus would prefer that the people not be Christians at all, or be fervent Christians, rather than to be, well, you know, like most of you. No, just kidding, just kidding. But that's completely wrong, because cold and hot are both good things, right? But Jesus would never prefer that you be totally just alienated from the faith or fervent. And think about water in these cities. Cold water is refreshing and good. Hot water is relaxing and therapeutic. All of these cities had baths with saunas and hot tubs and cold plunges, and it was just part of the culture. At banquets, you could be served drinks that had been chilled, because this is how good the economy was. Snow could

be transported from the top of mountains and sold in the marketplace to people who were rich enough to delight their guests with chilled beverages. And wine could be served hot and spiced. You know, grue-wein is not just a modern German phenomenon. So, the problem, of course, is that lukewarm water, water slightly heated, was in fact served at banquets to help you vomit. Well, you know, just to make room for the next course. If you've ever gone to Helen and Chris's house for a banquet, you know you need to make room for the next course. So, that's really more the background. And the hot and the cold don't need to be interpreted in this. Jesus goes right on to say what's wrong with the churches. What makes them lukewarm is the fact that they are thinking about

themselves and about, they're gauging their own well-being on exactly the terms of the society around them and not in terms of the way Christ is looking at them and their witness. They're thinking that there's nothing wrong with being immersed in this exploitative economy for their own benefit. So, Jesus has to wake them up to their real spiritual temperature so as to shock them into rethinking, wait a minute, can you talk a little bit about the history of this method of interpreting the Scriptures because I think we hear this, especially in our stream of the church, this letter wasn't written to you, enter the context of the people that it was written to, but then we also have a bunch of interpretations in historic Christianity that didn't take that approach and so I'm curious, kind of how

we got here if this was something that existed like as distance grew from the original recipient to the letter. Excellent. So, just to be a little glib, this is an ancient approach because this is exactly how those first Christians read it. But, as your question already intimates, by the time we get to the late second century, people like Irenaeus are reading Revelation quite differently. They have left the context of those first century Christians behind and he's reading it expecting something in the third century to happen. And, just frankly, that becomes a way of things. Christian teachers in every century demonstrable from that point on are reading Revelation as prediction or as a way to put labels on their immediate enemies. That's the other favorite way. And in every century for which we actually have evidence,

7th and 8th and 9th century, they're called the Dark Ages for a reason. Not a lot has survived from those centuries. But it's also very common to use this book to call someone the beast or Babylon. So, we do actually have some 7th and 8th century readings and not surprisingly, that's the time of the Arab conquest. So, suddenly, Revelation is all about the Arab conquest and the Muslim influx into North Africa and the Middle East and eventually into Constantinople. Of course, the Reformation, right? Revelation becomes a great tool to talk about the Pope, to badmouse the Pope. And it continues to this day. I would say thinking about Revelation with its first years is really, really starts to be recovered in the 18th century where, again, the New Testament scholars began to think, what if you

read Revelation the way we read Galatians? What if we dispense with a name-calling and just try to understand Revelation? And there is an assumption. The assumption is that Revelation would have been intelligible to the people John actually cared about. I happen to think that's a very safe assumption. but there it is. So, yeah, about three centuries. It doesn't begin to sell as well as the other.

I'll stick on that stream, Dr. David. But the idea that it's my mic one. Yeah, my mic's on. You don't need a mic for me, but for the people online. So, it's a fair assessment to say that John's book of Revelation is more concerned with faithful witness of the churches that he is pastoring than predicting the future. I want to make sure we all heard that and we're all tracking with that idea that this is political witness to Christ versus and above the environments and cultural environments that they kind of themselves. So, I don't want to entirely go that route because Revelation clearly overlaps with other New Testament teaching about what's going to happen. Point is, every verse of Revelation is about something that's going to happen. we still read in Revelation about what it means to

live in the expectation of Christ's coming. In the expectation that whatever nation we're living in the world, it's not the be-all and end-all of human history, but it's just one more kingdom of this world that will either fade away or will yield to the kingdom of God and his Messiah. These are convictions shared across the writings in the New Testament. However, the favorite passages for prophecy experts are Revelation 12 and 13 and Revelation 17 and 18. And we're going to look in our next session, thank you for the segue, Corey, about the ways in which those four chapters make immediate sense to people in the first century. and so are probably not part and parcel of the future that John is looking at, but rather the lifting of a veil from things that are very present

and real from those early Christians so that they see them not as their neighbors see them anymore, but as God sees them. And seeing them in that different light suddenly makes them orient themselves toward the world that they live in very differently. And that, I think, is the ongoing power of Revelation. I'll just close our first session with this. We live in very troubled political and economic times, and it's difficult to navigate faithful discipleship in the midst of the strong currents that are rippling through our society. Revelation has a lot to help us listen past the propaganda from every side and hear God's word to show us the ways forward that doesn't leave us seduced and harnessed by any temporal agenda. I'll just put it that way. So, we have a break of how long? Ten-minute break, come back. So, session two. Or don't. I get paid the same either way. Just kidding. Just kidding. Just kidding.

I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money.

I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money.

I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money.

I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money.

I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money.

I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. I get paid the money. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

John draws a very different picture. And the society and the structures in which the members of these seven congregations live. And it's the story that John most directly challenges in his revelation of the way things really are in the sight of the one God. And the second part. And the story of the Augustan age. And the story of the world. And the story of the world. would be to bring the family would be to bring the world. And the future of the sun and the sun. And we're not under. And the one world. And it's seen as the world. And the first of the world. Everlasting. from the world. And the trees there. And the other. And the same. And the truth. And the other. in the sense that the world. Augustus. And the early empire.

This list was inscribed. far from being a. And the first. And the other. in a prominent. what we would call. calendar year. Caesar. The word from the word. whose gifts. son of a God. Augustus. And the other. in the first. gifts. of Roma. under under. As we've seen. in life. in Roma. and the people. of the people. the Pergamos. and the people. stone. on these. And the people. and who are proclaiming. and the people. wine or incense. as in the name. It's very typical. to the year. and the world. and the people. and the people. and the people. the air would be filled. participating. to do one. and the people. and the people. and the people.

water into blood. and the people. what it means. and the people. and the ideologies. and the people. and the images. and the people. and the people. and the people. John accuses. and the people. and the people. and the people. came to the people. and the people. and the people. and the people. John's vision. and the people. and the people. and the people.
