PTW Witness: BEGIN WITH LOVE
2026-09-07
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_pt-59HpWio

God bless you. I hope you all are doing well. We have a stage prop that we are preparing, which is, you know, always an exciting time, and it takes longer to do than we thought it was going to take, so that's what's happening right now. But I'm going to trust the process, put the laptop down for a second, and let you know that we are starting a brand new sermon series. How many of you enjoyed the Revelation series? Awesome. That is one. I thanked my wife last week because if it was not for her, I don't know that that series ever would have happened. I've been avoiding the book of Revelation for a very long time, based on my own baggage and misunderstandings. My wife encouraged me to read it with her, and out of that came a really just a fresh perspective and an excitement about the truths that we talked about in the book of Revelation.

So last week, Kent kind of wrapped up the series, put a bow on it, reminded us of the prevailing message of the book, that the lamb who looks like he's slain, but sounds like a lion has conquered. The dragon is flailing. In this world, we will have trouble, but take heart for Christ has overcome the world. And this fall, we're going to be wrapping up a series that we've been doing for about three years now. If you've been around Canvas for that long, thank you. God bless you. And you will know that we've been in a series through nine practices through the life and teachings of Jesus. So far, we've covered prayer, fasting, Sabbath, solitude, generosity, and community. Would you do me a favor? And if you have any lasting practical applications from any of those practices, if you're still doing something that you started because of one of those series, would you raise your hand for me? Awesome. All right.

So we've got some practical applications, some continuing application. And really, that is the goal of these practices, because following Jesus is not about learning more information. It's about obeying Jesus with the information that we have. Yes, we should learn, but if we're not obeying, then we're missing the point. The whole series is wrapped around this statement that we are called to be with, become like, and do what Jesus did. And we're called to do that in the context of community, that obedience to Jesus in isolation is also missing the mark for what Jesus has for us. The final two practices that we have left are witness and Scripture. We decided to do witness first for two reasons. One, I think, is a very natural application from the message of the Revelation series. If we have been convinced that Jesus has been established, that the dragon is counterfeiting his neighbors and coworkers into believing a message that is less than the gospel of Jesus,

then a natural outpouring of that understanding would be that we would want to testify. We would want to witness to the truth that Jesus has overcome. We want to kind of come out of the Revelation series encouraging us to think about how we can creatively, intentionally talk to our friends about the kingdom of God. And secondly, we are going to be having a training at the end of this series in October that we would love for you to think about participating in. This series is a practical training on how we can live missionally, how we can engage with our friends and our community with the gospel of Jesus in a way that isn't weird. So that's kind of the elevator pitch. Check out the website. It's got more information. We've got dinner and childcare provided. Pastor Sam from Hope Valley is going to be helping us.

The Hope Valley Church is going to be joining us. So it's going to be a two church congregation training. And so we would love for you to consider, pray about joining us for that. Even if you can't do all six weeks, if your schedule lets you do four, whatever, like come hang out with us. It'll be great. Sound good? That's where we're headed this fall. Let's pray and we'll hop in. Father, we love you. And we thank you that you love us and that you love us so much that we can multitask while we're praying on stage to set up our laptop. That's so kind of you. You're so good. We thank you for this opportunity to open up your word, to think about how we can creatively engage people who are outside, who have not yet tasted and seen that you are good and that your mercy endures forever, that we can think about how we can be creative witnesses,

citizens of your kingdom until you return. Give us clarity and wisdom. Holy Spirit, just open up our eyes to see where you might be using us or wanting to use us in these ways. For your glory, our good, and the good of our neighbor, it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. All right, I do not have a ton of vivid memories from my childhood, but there is one in particular as I was preparing for this message that I could not forget. Hopefully, this doesn't trigger warning, Mom. This is going to bring some things back for me and you. I remember a time in which my mother and I got food poisoning from. Mom? No, you're wrong. Kentucky Fried Chicken. She's wrong. I'm right. Don't worry about it. Trust it. She says, "McDonald's. I say Kentucky Fried Chicken." Either way, it happened, and we were double-dipped. We have one bathroom in our house.

So she was puking in the tub. I was puking in the toilet. We shared some...we bond it. And for literally about 15 years after that, I...and this is why I know that I'm right, because I would not touch Kentucky Fried Chicken for most of my life after this experience. She's over here convincing her row that I'm wrong, and she's right. It's fine. It's fine. But as I share this, you probably have one of your own stories, something similar to this, whether it's Kentucky Fried Chicken, McDonald's, Taco Bell, coleslaw, oysters, tequila. I don't know what it is for you. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Real people realize. I didn't say it was a good thing. I just said it happens. These experiences often leave us convinced that something that is either good or neutral is bad, right?

We have this negative experience with something that's either positive or neutral, and it convinces us for however long that that thing is not a good thing. And I think this is exactly what has happened for many of us, whether we've grown up in the church or experienced the church from the outside. When it comes to this idea of Christian witness or the church word that we use is evangelism, when I say that word, do any of you cringe? Okay, some of us have this baggage where we've received something that is good in a bad way. We've seen it done poorly. We've been pressured into doing something that maybe felt uncomfortable or unnatural to us. And this is my experience with evangelism. I remember as a kid, like being in a church van, going door to door,

just in a way that I was not comfortable with, to people that I've never met, getting like as an 11 or 12 year old, getting the door slammed in your face by like a big burly dude, it's not a good thing for me, right? And so like I carried some of this baggage with me into Bible college, so much so that I thought I was a bad Christian, because the idea of evangelism did not excite me at all. Like I didn't want to do it, and I was like, maybe I'm not a Christian, because Christians should want to tell people about Jesus, and I do not, right? I had this experience with this good thing in a bad way, and it shaped the way that I handled it. Or maybe you've been on the outside. You've been on the receiving end of this.

You got one of those $100 bill tracks instead of a tip. You got yelled at by an angry street preacher. You've been treated like a project or a lead for someone's spiritual sales quota, rather than a person to be loved and listened to. So some of us carry some baggage, whether inside or outside the church. Not only that, but now we live in a postmodern, pluralistic society that has told us that sharing any ultimate truth claim can be offensive to somebody that you're talking to. In a recent poll by the Barner Group, they studied millennial Christians. 96% of millennial Christians say this, "Part of my faith means being a witness about Jesus." So almost 100% of Christians say, millennial Christians say, "I need to be telling others about Jesus." 94% say the best thing that could ever happen to someone is to know Jesus.

So 96% convinced that we're called to tell others. 94% convinced that if they do trust Jesus, it'll be the best thing that ever happens to them. But 47% of those same people also say it is wrong to share one's personal beliefs with someone of a different faith and hopes that they will one day share the same faith. So we've got baggage from inside the church, baggage from outside the church, and a culture that is telling us that it is offensive to tell somebody about Jesus. So all of that to say, if you're feeling uncomfortable about this practice, about witnessing, testifying, sharing the message of Jesus with people all around you, I just want you to take a deep breath and realize that you're not alone. But what if the solution to bad evangelism isn't no evangelism?

What if the call for us is actually to reclaim a better motive, a clearer message, and a better manner in which we go about evangelizing, or telling people, or witnessing to the kingdom of heaven until Jesus returns? So this is what we want to do for the next four weeks. We want to reclaim this idea of what good, beautiful, joyful evangelism looks like. And the definition that we're working with when it comes to evangelism or witness is we're going to define it this way, that we are called to demonstrate and declare the reign of King Jesus wherever we live, work, and play. We want to demonstrate and declare. So we want to talk about the kingdom of God, and we want to embody the kingdom of God. Two people that are in our circles of influence where we live, work, and play.

And there's other ways in which we can witness to the gospel of Jesus. Some of you might be called to become a missionary. That might mean you actually get up and move and go to a people group that you don't know. That's a beautiful and good thing, but we can't cover all of that in one series. So with this series, we're talking about where you are right now, where you live, work, and play. How do you demonstrate and declare the kingdom of God? So let's try and leave our baggage at the door and reclaim the joy of sharing the best news that we've ever received. I do want to also mention that in this series, another hopefully deep breath moment for you, is that we're not asking you to add a bunch of extra things to your schedule.

We're not asking you to add a bunch of things to your list. We're asking you to be intentional with the things you're already doing. It's the emphasis on live, work, and play. All of you live, work, and play somewhere. There are likely people in your sphere of influence, where you live, where you work, where you play, that do not know Jesus. So what are some intentional ways that you can reclaim those spaces in order to demonstrate and declare the kingdom of God? Sound good? All right. So for the rest of our time, we're going to open our Bibles. We're eventually going to land in Colossians chapter 2. I'm going to reference some other passages of Scripture along the way. We're going to talk about motive, message, and manner to demonstrating and declaring the rule and reign of Jesus where we live, work, and play.

Did everybody track and sound like a good plan? All right. Perfect. I didn't lose you with the vomit story. I just had to bring it back up for those of you that are just getting over it. Oh, man. We brought it back up. All right. First, motive. Our motivation, the reason why we go about demonstrating and declaring the kingdom of God is where we have to start. And it's oftentimes where people totally get off the rails. It's where people miss the opportunity to do the thing joyfully that God has invited them to do. Because I will say this, I will say this way, why we do what we do drastically impacts how we do it. Why we do what we do drastically impacts how we do it. And if we come to this idea of witness with a bad motivation, or we've been trained by a bad motivation, it will impact the way in which we go about doing this.

And there's a number of bad motivations that I've experienced, maybe some of you have experienced, with the idea of Christian witness. The first is treating people like a sales lead for your spiritual quota. I will never forget in college, I went to this, I won't name the ministry that does it, but it's like this overnight thing where you bring a bunch of youth kids and you play and you get them like really sleep deprived. And then you tell them that they're going to hell if they don't like recite this chant after you. Some of you've experienced that before. And I'll never forget though, we were, it was like midnight on the, the dude, the preacher was on the ice at a hockey rink. And he was like, last year, this time we preached the gospel and one of these kids wanted to get saved and they came down here and they slipped on the ice and cracked their head open and they died that night.

What if that happens to you? Do you want to go to hell or do you want to go to heaven? And I was just like, we're doing it. We're doing the thing, right? And again, like these are brothers and sisters in Christ who love the Lord, but the motivation is wrong, right? They're treating people like a sales quota. Whatever motivation I can do, whatever way I can weasel myself in, I can come up with a presentation to scare you or to manipulate you or to whatever, to get you to check a box so that I can go home to my church and say, "Guess what? We had 500 kids get saved at this thing." Did we have 500 kids get saved or were 500 kids scared to death, right? And can the Lord work through that? And do I know people who are pastors because they got saved in those moments? Sure.

But bad motives lead to bad witness, and it carries with us baggage. And the answer to bad evangelism is not no evangelism, right? So there's sales leads. There's trying to prove a stranger wrong. Sometimes that's out of insecurity. Like, I want to convince myself that what I believe is right, and so I'm going to get in a dialogical debate with a stranger, and I'm going to be angry and irritable about it because I want to prove to myself that I'm right as much as I want to prove to that other person that they're right. Guilt for not doing it. If you grew up in the church, I had this. Like, sometimes I would literally, like, force myself to have a conversation with somebody about Jesus because I felt guilty if I didn't. And that motivation is going to drastically impact how I go about doing that. That person in front of me is going to see right through the fact that I'm not talking to them about a kingdom of heaven

because I love them. I want them to experience the joy of who Jesus is. I'm talking to them because I feel guilty about not talking to them. So why we do what we do drastically impacts how we do it. And if this series, if this whole series is about being with, becoming like, and doing what Jesus did, then the question becomes, what was Jesus's motivation for announcing, for demonstrating and declaring the kingdom of God? I think a survey of the Gospels, the Gospels being the culmination of the entire biblical story, would seem to indicate that love and compassion is the primary reason Jesus came to demonstrate and declare the good news of his kingdom to the lost, hurting, and broken. We know the verses, "For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, who came not to condemn the world, but to save the world through him.

The Son of Man came seeking and saving the lost." The motivation at which Jesus came, the motivation in which God moved towards us even in creation before the fall, God moving towards humanity, breathing the breath of God into the lungs of Adam and Eve, that is love, God's love moving towards us in relationship. This is the motivation of God that we see ultimately demonstrated through the incarnation of Jesus. And there's one Greek word that comes up over and over again in the Gospels, and it's only used as a motivation and emotion that Jesus feels towards people. It's not ever used of other people feeling towards other people. You guys want to learn some Greek? Apparently, this is when you get in real weird Bible nerd circles. Apparently, there's been some recent research done on how Koine Greek is a dead language. So we're reconstructing how to pronounce it.

And there's a way in which I was taught to pronounce it in seminary. And now, apparently, there's a debate about whether or not that's pronounced right or not. Guess what? Doesn't matter. So we're going to pronounce it the way I know how to pronounce it. And if it's wrong, it's wrong. Can you look at your neighbor and say, "Splakizomai." "Splakizomai." "Splakizomai." There's a little bit of, you know, in the throat there. This is a word, again, only ever used of Jesus towards people. It's translated in most of your translations as compassion. And literally, it is an emotion that Jesus feels towards people. It's a gut-level emotion that changes your behavior. A gut-level emotion that actually changes the direction of your behavior. The clearest way I can illustrate this is in Mark. When Jesus had just had a really busy ministry season with him as his disciples, they were very exhausted.

And he said, "Come away with me. For a little while, we're going to rest." Okay? So Jesus is like, "We're exhausted. We need to rest. We're going away from the crowds." They get in the boat. They go away from the crowds. They get off the boat. And guess what? The crowds beat them to the place that they were going to rest. And it says in the text that Jesus had "Splachizomai." He had compassion on them. And his compassion changed his behavior. He had planned to go rest, and now he is going to perform one of the most probably draining miracles of all time, turning a couple of loaves and a couple of fish and enough food to feed 20,000 people. This is the compassion that Jesus has on people who are lost and who are like sheep without a shepherd. And this is the motivation that I'm going to argue that we need to cultivate

within our own hearts if we're going to ever be able to testify, to demonstrate, and to declare the kingdom of God to people where we live, work, and play. We have to start with a gut-level compassion for people who are being, again, back to Revelation, deceived by the dragon to believe a lie that is leading them to anxiety, depression, fear, sadness, sorrow, whatever experience they might be having. We have to start with compassion for them and not compassion for them like, "I'm better than you, and if you just knew what I knew, then you wouldn't experience the things you're experiencing." No genuine, like, heartfelt compassion for people who don't yet know, who have not yet tasted and seen that the Lord is good. So this is the motivation that Jesus has for us, and it translates to his early missionaries. In 2 Corinthians 5, we see the Apostle Paul,

one of the early church's first official missionaries, being motivated by the same motivation. In 2 Corinthians 5, it says, "Either way, Christ's love controls us." This is Paul's motivation in his missionary journey. It's Paul's motivation in his ministry to people. His love, the love of Christ for him and for the people he's ministering to controls him. Paul had become convinced of God's love for him, first and foremost. He says, "I'm the chief among sinners, and yet God loved me, saved me, redeemed me, has given me a fresh start." So first, if we're going to have compassion for others, we have to realize how much God loves us. Charlie talked about this in his testimony last week. We're supposed to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength and love your neighbor as yourself.

If you don't love yourself, you can't love your neighbor in the way that God intended you to love your neighbor. We've got to realize how much God has loved us. We have to allow the Father to parent us and to love us unconditionally, and then out of the overflow of that love, receiving that love, we move towards people who have yet to taste and see the Lord is good, and we do it with compassion. This is a model for how we can begin to, like Jesus and Paul, move with compassion towards people in the circles of influence, where they haven't yet understood or responded to Christ's love for them. We used to have this saying at my old church in Pennsylvania. I love my old church in Pennsylvania. Still chat with them on a regular basis. We just talk about people who are far from God.

I don't like that language anymore. I understand what it's trying to communicate, but the people that don't yet know Jesus, where you live, work, and play, they're not far from God. God is in their midst. He is at work. He is in the breath that they are consuming in their lungs. They just haven't yet tasted and seen that he's good, but he is there. He is waiting for you to demonstrate and declare his rule and reign to each one of those people because God so loved the world. So we meditate on God's love, and we pray for God to give us genuine compassion for those in our lives. If we want to be a joyful witness, if we want to do this not out of guilt or shame or meeting a sales quota or whatever motivation it might be, if we want to do this well, it has to start with compassion for people.

But we also have to believe the message that we are called to share is actually good news. Which leads me to my second point. The motive is compassion, and we have to get clear about what the message really is. I think another reason why some of us might have negative reactions around the idea of evangelism, witness, sharing the gospel, is we've been given a watered-down and oversimplified version of the gospel that often sounds more like bad or scary news than good news. It's this, "You might die tomorrow. Do you want to be in hell, or do you want to be in heaven?" Is that an implication of the gospel? Yes, absolutely. I'm not saying we alter the message of Jesus, but we've been given this message. We've called it the gospel, and it's a very small sliver of the pie of what Jesus did when he announced,

and when he demonstrated, and when he declared the kingdom of God. I preached on this in October of 2024. I preached the message called, "What is the gospel?" I would love for you to go back and check that out, because I don't have time to do all of it this morning. But what I would say is the message of the gospel that we've been called to demonstrate and declare is so much more than about where you go when you die. It's about Jesus overcoming death and the grave, and establishing his kingdom on earth until he returns, and we are citizens of that kingdom that get to participate in the life-giving, abundant life that comes with knowing that death is not the end, and that sin and grave will be conquered once and for all. The message of Jesus is so much better than about where you go when you die.

And we see this in Luke's account of the story of Jesus. There's this progression in Luke 8, Luke 9, Luke 10, and all the way down to Acts. So just let me read it down, follow along with me. In Luke's account, in the story of Jesus, in Luke 8:1, it says that Jesus went around proclaiming and preaching the kingdom of God. This is the gospel. This is the message that Jesus went around proclaiming, the message of the kingdom of God. Not the message of where we go when we die, not the message of condemnation for sin, the message of the kingdom of God, that Jesus has conquered sin and death, and that he is risen and reigning and ruling until he returns. So in Luke 8, Jesus proclaims and preaches the kingdom. It also says in that text that many of his earliest followers were

following him because he met their practical needs. Read this with me. Also, some women who had been cured of evil spirits and diseases. So like not only is he declaring this message that he has conquered sin, death, and the grave, that he is overcoming the travesty of the brokenness of this world, but he's demonstrating it through miraculous signs and wonders. He's showing up, and he's showing people what the kingdom of God is like. In chapter 9, he gives his apostles, his disciples, power and authority over demons and to heal the sick, and tells them to go and proclaim the kingdom of God and to perform healing. So now he's, first he's doing it, then he's sending out 12 of his disciples to do the same thing, both demonstrate and declare the rule of King Jesus

on earth until he returns. And then in Luke 10, he does it again with 72 of his followers. And finally, we get to Acts chapter 1, his last words before ascending into heaven. He commissions his followers who are there in the room, and by extension, all of us who have bowed the knee to King Jesus, and he commissions us to be his witnesses. He gives us power by the Holy Spirit to both demonstrate and declare God's kingdom to the world around us, to be a witness to the kingdom of God in both demonstration and declaration, wherever we live, work, and play. And this commission that he gave to his early followers, it wasn't a foreign concept to them. This was a familiar concept that they understood, the idea of being witness. I'm forgetting the Greek word now. It sounds like martyr, because that's where we get the word

martyr, because the earliest witnesses were killed for testifying to the kingdom of Jesus. I think it's Martis or something like that. This idea of being a witness was something that regularly happened in the Roman Empire. The Roman Empire had witnesses who would go around from town to town, and they would declare, they would announce the good news of a Roman military victory, of some kind of conquest, of some kind of peace being restored in the empire. So they had these witnesses that would go about, and literally the same Greek word for gospel is the word used by Josephus to explain what these Roman witnesses would do. They would go, and they would declare a euangelion, a gospel, a good news. And they would say, "Here is the good news of the Roman Empire. We need you

to metanoia, repent, and pistis believe." Literally the same gospel structure, the way that Jesus proclaimed the gospel, the way that he invited us to proclaim the gospel. Because they were proclaiming temporary good news and inviting their citizens to be good citizens of the Roman Empire. And this is exactly what the early Christian movement was doing. They were saying, "Listen, the Roman Empire is fine, but it's temporary. It's going to fall apart. There's a kingdom. There's a new king who sits on his throne. You say Caesar is Lord. We say Jesus is Lord, and his lordship is eternal. And we are here to testify to the euangelion that not only is there temporary peace, but there is eternal peace because Jesus has conquered sin, death, and the grave at his resurrection. And because of that, if you would repent of your sins

and believe that Jesus is Lord, you will conquer. You will be a citizen of a new kingdom and a new throne. And this is the message of the gospel. It's so much bigger than where we go when we die. It transcends everything about us. We are now primarily citizens of a kingdom where Jesus is on the throne and death no longer has the last word. This is the message that we are called to proclaim. And if we get this message in our bones, we'll see it all over the place. We'll see invitations to partner with God, to share with others the good news of Jesus that transcends not just where we go when we die, but everything about our lives. This is why we plan the series directly after Revelation. The message of the gospel is the declaration that Jesus is the one true Lord of the world.

He has won the decisive victory over evil and death itself. He has brought lasting peace and abundant life through his kingdom, which is available to all. The dragon has been, do you remember, thrown down. The lamb is risen and reigning. All who repent of the dragon's false kingdoms and place their allegiance in Jesus as Lord are more than conquerors, and nothing can separate us from the love of the Father. The suffering of this present world is not worthy to be compared to the glory that will be revealed. And this is the message that we've been given to testify about. It isn't detached from our real lives. It isn't something that we just declare with our mouths, but we demonstrate with our lives in sacrificial love towards others. So we start by being moved with compassion, by clarifying the message.

We understand that the gospel really is good news for the poor, the hurting, and the broken. And that fuels the way we go about evangelism. Colossians chapter 2 is where we're going to start to land the plane. Don't get too excited. I wish we were landing it too. It's fine. It's fine. Okay.

I had a bookmark, but... All right. Colossians chapter 4 verse 2. Do we have it on the screen? Because I give you a different version than I have. Paul says, "Devote yourselves to prayer, being watchful and thankful, and pray for us too, that God may open a door for our message, so that we may proclaim the mystery of Christ, for which I am in chains. Pray that I may proclaim it clearly as I should. You, be wise in the way that you act towards outsiders, those who haven't tasted and seen the Lord is good. Make the most of every opportunity. Let your conversation be full of grace, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how to answer everyone." If we allow the Holy Spirit inside of us to develop true compassion for our neighbors, coworkers, and friends that haven't tasted and seen that the Lord is good.

If we believe in our bones that the message of the kingdom of heaven is good news to the poor, the hurting, and the broken, then the way in which we go about sharing it is we prayerfully develop a right attitude. And we just creatively look for ways to share the good news to people we find ourselves in relationship with. I really just want to meditate on what it would look like for us to just do what Colossians says. To pray for people who are in our circles of influence, and to have compassion for them, and to demonstrate to them that you have compassion for them. Not fake compassion, not compassion that's motivated by some weird, like, spiritual quota that you're trying to hit, or some guilt that you're trying to avoid. Like, genuine compassion for people who have yet to taste and see the Lord is good.

And then look for ways in which you can be a witness to that person, to the good news of the kingdom. And I think this is important, because I think it involves a lot more creativity than maybe it used to. I heard Tim Keller talk about this, and I'm just going to try and do my best to summarize what I heard him say, because he's Tim Keller and I'm not. Tim Keller was talking about the difference in how he did ministry and evangelize the people in the '80s in the rural Bible Belt versus when he moved to the heart of New York City in the 2000s. And he said that in the '80s, all he really had to do was connect the dots for people. So pretty much everybody in the Bible Belt in the '80s believed that there was a God,

believed in some type of subjective morality and some type of afterlife. Even if they weren't familiar with the Bible, like they had enough of the concepts that he just had to step in and be like, "Oh, like this is where Jesus fits into these ideas that you already believe." And it was more like connecting the dots. It was easier in the '80s. And now he said most people, they've kind of lost a lot of those presuppositions. Whether we like it or not, this reality has spread, and an increasing number of people in our circles of influence, even here in Frederick County, I know we're still a little bit rural Bible Belt-ish, but it's still happening here that more and more people have less and less of those presuppositions. And here's where I want to be really, this is where I want to really put a flag in the ground.

Our job is not to bemoan what used to be. Like, our job is not to try and fight a culture war to make the culture Christian again so that evangelism is easier. It's not our job. Our job is to have compassion for the people who are right in front of us. And the people who are right in front of us don't have the same presuppositions that they used to. And we could be upset about that. We could be frustrated about that. We could be discouraged about that. Or, with compassion, by the power of the Holy Spirit, we could think about how we could creatively demonstrate and declare the rule of King Jesus to them and invite them into a conversation about the one who is risen and reigning and on the throne. Because it's a lot easier to demonstrate and declare the kingdom of heaven in a culture that is not intertwined with evangelicalism.

We can just demonstrate light is brighter when things are darker. Got it? So our job is not to bemoan what it used to be. It's to joyfully and creatively demonstrate and declare the rule of Jesus wherever we live, work, and play. Keller went on to explain that because people don't have these presuppositions, that what good evangelism looks like for them is instead of coming to a place where you connect all the dots and you say, "Do you want to receive Jesus as your Lord and Savior?" And they're like, "Yeah, great." That what evangelism looks like now more than ever is somebody has to say, "Oh, maybe not all Christians are judgmental hypocrites." Right? Like that's step one in the evangelism process is you become a person in their life who they say, "Oh, that person is a genuine Christian, and they're not judgmental or a hypocrite." Step one. He says step two might be something like,

"They've built this relationship with you. They see you read your Bible. You talk to them a little bit, and they're like, "Oh, maybe the Bible isn't totally antiquated or irrelevant for my life." And that decision leads them to interact with the teachings of Jesus, which might cause them to be spiritually curious, which gets the snowball rolling down the hill, which might lead them to begin to pray on their own, see God eventually through the work of the Holy Spirit, get to that place where they repent and believe the good news of Jesus. But evangelism looks different today than it did when most of us were given tools of how to do it. And what I want to give us freedom to do is just, by the power of the Holy Spirit, think creatively and gracefully about how we can

demonstrate and declare the rule and reign of Jesus to people all around us who don't have the presuppositions that they used to have. If evangelism used to be about connecting the dots, I think now it's much more about opening doors and inviting people to come in and see the room. It's hard work. It involves creativity. But if we've developed a heart of compassion for people who don't know Jesus, and if we truly understand how good the message of Jesus is, we will joyfully look for opportunities to open the doors of the kingdom for others to step in and see God's goodness. So let's kind of land the plane, get some application in. We've got to understand the culture, beliefs, and story of the people in our lives. This is the first work of every good missionary. Most good missionaries you talk to say that they're not even looking to have a spiritual

conversation with somebody until like three to five years into living there, because they're transporting themselves into a totally different culture that they do not understand, and to a people that do not trust them. And so the beautiful thing about where we're at, where we live, work, and play, is you know the culture, you know the people in front of you, but you've got to understand their story. You've got to listen to them. Do not come into a spiritual conversation with somebody assuming you know anything about somebody. Ask them. Ask them questions. We don't have to awkwardly read off a script. We can start with intentionally loving people God has placed in our lives with no strings attached. You can love somebody and never get to have a spiritual conversation with them. We're sowing seeds of the

gospel in their lives. Do we trust the God who rose from the dead, that he is sovereign over the souls of individuals, or do we really think it's our job to make it happen? We become a trustworthy person who begins to witness to the good news through our words and our actions. We don't put pressure on ourselves to close the deal. We trust that God is at work, and we position ourselves to partner with his Holy Spirit. The tension that I forgot to mention between demonstrate and declare, there is a tension there. The Bible does tell us to declare the gospel, and there's a type of evangelism where people just want to do the demonstrating. They just want to be loving, compassionate people towards people who don't yet know Jesus, and they never want to tell them that,

like, Jesus said, "I am the way, the truth, and the life," because that sounds hurtful. And there's a different kind of people that just want to declare and never want to demonstrate. Also bad. We're trying to thread the needle here. Sound good? All right. So my main point this morning is, followers of Jesus, we get to joyfully and creatively witness to the kingdom of God when we develop compassion for others and are convinced that the gospel is actually good news. The solution to bad evangelism isn't no evangelism. It starts with our motivation, is developed by our understanding of the message, and will ultimately impact how we go about doing it. So if you want to get really practical, if you want to do something, if you want homework, I know you guys want homework, school's coming back into session. I'd say

this, write down the names of three to five people in your life who don't follow Jesus. Just begin to to notice things about them. What do you already know about their lives? And what have you assumed about their lives? Ask them questions about their beliefs, about their presuppositions, and ask to listen, not to respond. So often when we do get the courage to have these conversations, we feel like it's our job in the first moment to tell them why their presuppositions are wrong. Listen, compassion, be moved towards them, pray for them, and ultimately entrust the outcome to God. We're going to take communion in just a minute, so if you haven't had a chance to get that, you should do that while I awkwardly go turn on my stage prop, okay? Did I lose the remote?

Donovan did this to me. He did it on purpose. I know he did. We tested this like four times, just so you guys know. I found it. It's right where I put it, so take back everything I said about Donovan. None of it was true. Fancy. All right. Some of you already responded to this via email to our members. This is something we're doing along with this series. It is a map, just so that we can begin to visualize where we have ambassadors for the kingdom of God all around our city and our county, where we know where our people live, work, and play. Because the reality is there are people that are in your lives that will never step foot in this church. Even if you invited them, they're never going to step foot in this church. And I just want

to, I want for us to begin to visualize what it would look like for us to be a church where we viewed ourselves as a gathered group of people whose joyful invitation was to demonstrate and declare the kingdom wherever we live, work and play. Imagine a church where a majority of baptisms weren't happening in this building, where the most effective evangelism isn't done by preachers on a stage, but by friends and neighbors and coworkers at parks and ball fields and dance studios and dinner tables. Imagine a church that doesn't invite people to come to them, but with compassion goes outside these walls and engages people who'd never stepped foot in this place, even if they were invited. This is more and more a reality of our culture. Less and less people feel comfortable showing up to church on a Sunday

morning. And those are the people that God has called us, invited us to demonstrate and declare the rule of Jesus. We can no longer get off the hook with just saying, "Hey, do you want to come to church with me on Sunday?" Imagine a church where the best evangelists aren't on a stage but around a table. This map is intended to demonstrate the idea that we are sent people because God is ascending God.

God sent his son for us. He sends us to the world. So the members got early access to this. If you want to participate in it, hopefully it's in the bulletin. It'll be on the newsletter. There's a QR code here. This TV is going to be out in the lobby for the rest of the series, just so we can begin to visualize like what it looks like for our church to leave this place and be witnesses to the kingdom. Matthew chapter 9. Jesus went through all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, healing every disease and every affliction. When he saw the crowds, he had, say it, splachizomai. Come on. Let's do it one more time. When he saw the crowds, he had splachizomai for them because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. Then he

said to his disciples, "The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into the harvest." A hope and prayer for us is that we begin to pray for a renewed passion, for joyful, creative evangelism. Pray for soft and receptive hearts. Not only does this map represent the people in our church. Welcome, R. Samstel. Thanks for signing up. Welcome, M. Luciani. Thank you for signing up. Why did that name? That name had to just throw me for a loop right here on stage. All right. Not only does it represent where we are going out, but it represents like 80,000 people in our community that we all get the opportunity to rub shoulders with. My hope and my prayer is that we just begin to reframe the way we think about witness over these next few

weeks. So as we take communion this morning, what I want you to think about, I was thinking about this this morning, is again, in Revelation, we have this picture of this wedding feast, right? This banquet around the table. For all those from every tribe, language, nation, and tongue who have trusted in the Lord Jesus, who have bowed their knee to his kingdom and his rule and his reign, where we all gather around a table at the end of time when Jesus returns and we celebrate the victory. I want you, as we take communion this morning, to just imagine yourself at that table with two or three open spots beside you. Who are those people that you're praying for, that you're developing compassion for, that you're looking to creatively demonstrate the kingdom of God, to just begin to imagine the people. And maybe

if you're not there yet, maybe you just want to imagine the person that's responsible for you being at the table. Because all of us are here because somebody told us. All of us are here because somebody demonstrated and declared the reign of Jesus. We are the hands and feet of Jesus. We are here because somebody else brought us along. So this morning, as we celebrate the victory of Jesus, if you are a believer of Jesus, don't take communion if you haven't trusted in Christ yet. But if you have, pray that you would take Christ's body broken for you. Blood of Christ shed for you.

Father, we pray for each individual in our church, little dots on a map. God, but we're so much more than dots on a map. We're image bearers of you, ambassadors for your kingdom wherever we go. God, give us courage, boldness, compassion, excitement, joy to go into spaces that you have put us in with a heart to share and demonstrate your good news to people all around us. God, I pray for all of the people that this map represents, individuals all over our county and our city who don't yet know you. God, for soft and receptive hearts, for serendipitous moments, for the Holy Spirit, for your Holy Spirit to make things happen so that it's just abundantly obvious that you want them to repent and believe in you. God, have your way in our church. May we be a church that doesn't wait for people to come to us, but we go

with compassion towards those who are never going to step foot in these doors. For your glory, our good, and the good of our neighbor. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Church, go in peace, demonstrating and declaring the reign of Jesus wherever you live, work, and play. You can... Let's pray.
