REVELATION: The Revelation of Jesus Christ
2026-06-29
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_KmUaIso3cM

*music* *music*

Well, that's intense. *laughter* Good morning. I welcome you all to the beginning of our series on Revelation. We hope it's a revelation to you. We hope you get at least three things out of this series that's gonna last through the summer. As we invite you to read Revelation anew, like you've never read it before. Just pick it up and really read it. We hope you get a renewed perspective on this book, okay? If you've looked at this book in the past with confusion, which is likely, or with fear or with discontent over how it's played out around you previously, my message to you is that this is a book of promise, okay? As Jesus said in John's Gospel when he was talking about the judgment, John 16:33, "I've told you these things so that in me you may have peace.

In this world you will have tribulation, but take heart, I have overcome the world." That's all of Revelation right there. He could have just said that. This was a letter written to people going through tribulation. They were being martyred. They were going through all sorts of persecution. They'd been told the Prince of Peace had come and the kingdom would be born and they'd be a part of it. And now they're going through all this tribulation and Jesus has told them, "You will have tribulation, but take heart. At the end, righteousness prevails and I will overcome the evil of the world." That's the story of Revelation. So we hope you get that renewed perspective and then you can see that when you read it. The second thing is a renewed insight. Renewed insight is going to come, unfortunately, by you putting in a little work, right?

That's the way that always works. And what we need you to do is not much work, but it's going to require a careful reading of the text from everybody here, okay? If you've avoided reading this for years because you've just heard it once too often, or you've heard too many crazy things about it, or you tried to read it once and it seemed a little bizarre, or the people you knew just were a little too intense about it so you backed off, or you may be one of the people who've read it. You have a distinct and thorough explanation for everything in it and you don't think you need to read it anymore, right? If any of that is you, we want you to read it again from scratch, okay? And this week, what I need you to do is hear it the way the early church heard it, which is all at once, out loud, without chapter breaks, okay?

So, get with your spouse or a significant other or your friend and one of you read it to the other person and if you don't have somebody, which is fine, your phone will do it for you, right? You can log into the Bible app and it will read Revelation to you all at once on your way to work, okay? And we need you to read it that way because the early church never had the education opportunity or resources to go through and parse it word by word and look up what every image meant and it just didn't happen. They sat in church and somebody read the whole thing out to them at once and it just washed over them, all these images. And it was a big picture. So, we want everyone to do that this week, okay?

Read it out loud. You can read it out loud to yourself, that's also okay. But get your phone, have someone read it to you, you read it to them. And then as we go through the summer, it'll be 22 chapters over 10 weeks. So, you know, roughly two chapters a week, you can read more slowly along with us. But we want you to get that first impulse, impact this week. Yes, sir. Why out loud? Why out loud? Because that's how the early church would have read it. I just want you to hear it the way they heard it. Also, when you read it out loud, your ears hear what your mouth is saying and it goes in twice. Yeah. So, the last thing is, so a renewed perspective and insight, but also a renewed mission.

In verse 4 of Revelation, actually verse 3, he says, "Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of the prophecy." That's another reason to read it out loud, right? "Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of the prophecy." "Blessed are those who hear it and keep what's written in it for the time is near." So, that "keep what's written in it." Some translations you have will say, "Keep it, heed it, obey it, take to heart." That's one of them. "Obey it." This is the Hebrew concept of Shema, right? "To hear and to obey." You haven't really heard it until you've obeyed it. You'll notice when you read Revelation, the direct commands are at a minimum. So, you might ask yourself, "How can I heed and obey this that I'm hearing?" The answer is, that's your job this summer is to answer that question, okay?

I'm on the schedule to speak the last week. And when I get up here, I'm going to ask, "How do you keep and heed the words of this prophecy?" Right? That's the thing we have to decide this summer. You need to read this book and don't say, "What does it mean? What does it mean I should do?" Right? We sang this morning, "Standing on the solid rock, you've seen me through the storms." Jesus, that parable is in Matthew 25. He says, "Everyone who hears these words of mine and acts on them, and acts on them, will be like a wise man who builds his house on the rock. And the rains fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and slammed against the house, and yet it didn't fall because it was founded on the rock."

In Luke, where he prefaces that with the sentence, "Why do you call me Lord, Lord, when you don't do what I tell you?" Right? Why are you saying, "I'm your Lord, I'm your leader, I'm the one to who you have fealty," when you're not doing it? I'm trying to give you a solid rock on which to build your house, right? So, when it says, "He who hears and reads the words of this prophecy and keeps them, obeys them," there's something that we're supposed to do. This is a book that should lead us to action. We've got 10 weeks to figure out what that action is. All right? Thank you. Thank you. That's good. So, the book opens with, as we sequence that action, the book opens with the revelation of Jesus Christ. So, the focus is on Jesus.

As we go through the summer, it's important to keep that in mind. This is a revelation of Jesus. It's not a revelation of what? Armageddon, the beast, the four horsemen. It's not a revelation of the bowls of wrath. It's not the rapture or the antichrist, right? And, incidentally, rapture and antichrist, two words never used in Revelation. So, it's definitely not a revelation of those two things, right? Most importantly, though, it's not a revelation of you. It's not a revelation of me. It's not a revelation of what's going to happen to me. It's a revelation of Jesus. He's told us there's going to be tribulation. There's a picture of some tribulation that the people are going through. But the revelation is, at the end of it, Christ reigns. That's the revelation. So, it's a revelation of Christ.

And we see images of Christ over and over. So, we don't want to look for ourselves. We want to look for Christ. And that can be confusing because of all the images. But I want to give you guys a visual picture. And to understand this, you have to understand that I grew up in Alabama, where there is only football. Oh, my goodness. I'm an Auburn fan. But that's exactly it. Growing up in Alabama, there is several million people with a misplaced pathology focused on a single game, right? That dominates our 365 days a year. And every conversation I have with somebody, I'm aware of what tribe they're in. Fortunes and marriages and businesses and friendships are born and lost over this game. And it dominates everything. I grew up an Auburn fan, but I grew up in the shadow of Legion Field, which was where Alabama

played half their games. It was a big giant stadium in Birmingham. And I sold programs at all the Alabama games to my arch enemy, you know, so that I could be a lead seller, so that I could get in to sell programs at the Iron Bowl once a year. Because that was the only way I could get a ticket, and I could never afford one anyway. And that didn't even give me a seat. It just allowed me to get in the stadium. I'd get there two hours early to the Iron Bowl. If I was a top seller, I could sell at the Iron Bowl. I'd get there early, sell several boxes. And that would allow me to walk around during the game half-heartedly holding a program in the air while I watched the game, right?

And it's impossible to explain to you the intensity of the emotion of 100,000 people focused on that one day of the year, right? And when I would come out from under the darkness of the stands holding my box of programs, just a noise like a thousand waterfalls behind me would come over, and the Alabama band, the million dollar band's coming up, and the mockery of the Auburn band, you know, is coming back at them, and the Simpson Peppers yelling over the loudspeaker. It was this enormous event. And I would hear behind me this guy with the most inventive stream of abuse, right, aimed at the other side. And I would hear it, and I would turn. And if I say to you, I saw this thing, and it was amazing, and then I heard, and I turned,

and I saw what he was doing, it would sound to you like he just did that. But I assure you, he'd been going for hours, right? And he is going to continue hurling the statements for the rest of this several hours. But I'm telling you to give you a picture of what I'm seeing, what I observed in the order I observed it. All these things are happening concurrently and consecutively and in repetition. The popcorn guy is yelling popcorn over and over. This guy behind me yelling abuse will not stop, right? It's going to go for the whole game. And I tell you what I saw when it's relevant to draw the picture for you of what I experienced that day. In this massive stadium with hundreds of thousands of people doing their own thing, but each one

focused on what's happening at the center. As the ref makes a call, the ball moves, everyone stops and looks in wonder at this one thing, and then they go back to their various activities, extolling the wonders of this game. This is clearly what John's going through, except that when I tell you this, you guys have seen a football game. You've been to a stadium. You have context for this. I can use words that you understand. John was thrust into a heavenly realm, and he just had to see everything in all of heaven. An angel came and lifted the veil and showed him what was under there, and he's scribbling madly with a pen to try to say, "I saw this, and then I saw this, and then I saw this, and then I saw this," and if we were to take that as some sort of simple linear story, we

would miss what he's telling us. He's telling us, as he turns around and hears a voice and turns and sees and turns and sees what's happening in all of heaven, and he's got to go back and repeat himself, because it's impossible to convey in human language something for which we have no context. So this revelation of Jesus, we see him as a picture. We see him pictured as a conquering king with a sword coming out of his mouth ready to meet out justice. We see him as a slain lamb, a young baby. We see him as an indomitable king. We see him as an eternal God who overcame death. Many images, but each of those images is trying to convey something to us about his character at that moment and his significance at that moment.

Think of the last time you had an argument with your wife or significant other. It takes like two minutes, but the nuance of every letter has meaning. And there's a huge back story behind everything you say. And for Dave to explain to me that little two-minute conversation would take 40 pages of writing to really thoroughly explain to me every nuance and every meaning of everything. And that's something he knows completely about, and he could never convey it all to me. John is trying to convey this enormous experience for which we have no context. And he's got to use some sort of image or metaphor, something that uses the language we have to convey something that we can't conceive. So he gives us images over and over of Christ as the slain lamb and a young baby and a conquering king.

The first image we have is in Revelation chapter one. I'm going to start in verse nine, where he says, "I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation and the kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus, was on the island of Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus." That means he's in a penal colony because he wouldn't stop preaching, okay? John worked with some churches in Western, what's today, Western Turkey. He called it Asia. We call it Asia Minor today, but it's Turkey. And there were a number of churches there. And he wouldn't stop preaching the seditious message of a different ruler, a different Prince of Peace, a different Son of God than Rome recognized in their cult of the emperor. And so he was sent to a penal colony, which today, it's just right off the coast.

But without modern communication and conveyance, he must have been on the other end of the world. You know, he might as well have been. So he's on the island called Patmos on account of preaching. I was in the spirit on the Lord's day, so he's worshiping. And I heard behind me the voice like a trumpet saying, "Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches." So seven churches that he works with: Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea. So he hears something, wants to know what it is, turns. Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning, I saw seven golden lampstands. And in the midst of the lampstands, one like the Son of Man, clothed with a long robe, golden sash around his chest.

The hairs of his head were white, like white wool, like snow. His eyes were flaming fire. His feet were burnished bronze refined in a furnace, so no dross, just glowing. His voice was like the roar of many waters, like a trumpet and like the roar of many waters, just a massive sound. In his right hand, he held seven stars, and out of his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword. And his face was like the sun, shining in full strength." This is a terrifying image, right? John would be excused if he were frightened. And in verse 17, "When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead." He was frightened. "But he lay his right hand on me, the hand of blessing, saying, 'Fear not, for I am the first and the last.'" So this figure is now identifying himself as the Yahweh Creator God.

In verse 4, he's already said, "Peace to you from he who was and who is to come." In verse 8, "The Alpha and Omega," says the Lord God, "who is and who was and who is to come." This person is now identifying," and John set that up deliberately, "identifying as the one who is and was and is to come, the Alpha and Omega." So he's seeing God in the midst of seven lampstands. The divine. "So I am the first and the last and the living one. I died and behold, I live forevermore. I have the keys of death and Hades." Well, he's already set that up. In verse 5, "Jesus Christ is the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead." So this character is both the Creator God divine, a glorified picture of Jesus Christ.

John's never seen him like this, right? Last time John saw Jesus, he'd raised from the dead and he was talking to him as a person. And now he's this immensely glorified figure that he correlates directly with God Almighty. So this is an amazing moment for John. And Jesus standing in the midst of these lampstands says to John, "Write therefore the things you've seen, those that are and those that are to take place after that." So that tells us two things. One, some of the stuff in Revelation that he writes about is happening while John's alive, right? You're going to write down things that are happening now. He said that also in verse 9. "I'm your brother and partner in tribulation and in the kingdom in patient endurance." So the tribulation that he's writing about, again, this is a letter written to people undergoing tribulation and persecution.

It's happening to John. He's in a penal colony, right? He's a partner in this. So part of what's in Revelation, it's happening during his life in AD 65 to 95, somewhere back then, a long time ago. And some of it are things that are to take place after this. In verse 3, it tells us the time is near for those things. So at some point, probably pretty soon after John experiences this, some of the events are going to happen. It's possible some will be in the distant future. So some is happening in his life. Some very soon. It's possible some will be later. So that we hear right away. Write these things down. "As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand in verse 20, and the seven golden lampstands,

the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches." Okay, no big mystery there, but it's significant. Notice he didn't explain why my hair is glowing, why I have flashing eyes and glowing feet, right? Because those were all images directly out of prophecy. When John describes Jesus that way, he's pulling straight from Daniel chapter 7 and 10. And the picture of the holiness of God is straight from Ezekiel's vision. And the sword in the mouth is right out of Isaiah. He's using pictures pulled from a prophecy that everyone reading this would have known cold. And so they understand exactly what he means by it. The seven lampstands and the seven angels, they didn't have an image for that. So it had to be explained. This tells us he expected them to understand what he's writing.

This wasn't mysterious. It wasn't cryptic. He was saying something in language that they understood. And if they didn't understand it, he told them immediately, right? So, the seven golden lampstands, that's an image out of Zechariah that's being reused. In Zechariah, you guys know what a menorah is, right? It's the seven-branched symbol of Hanukkah. That was the lamp. And the Hebrew word used here is menorah because that's the Hebrew word for this lamp. And so it was a lamp with seven branches. This is seven of those, seven sevens. So this is an amplified holy, holy version of what Zechariah had experienced. And the lamps, they served in the tabernacle and the temple to illuminate the way to the holy of holies, to get from man to God, right? So here we have each of the seven churches serving to guide the way to Jesus standing in their midst.

Jesus said, "Don't hide your lamp under a bushel. Put it on a lampstand for all to see so they can come to me." And that's what they're seeing. He's seeing a vision of these seven churches functioning as they should. They're illuminating a path to Jesus who's in their midst. He's standing there guiding them. And each of the seven churches has an angel. What's an angel? It's a divine messenger is what angel literally means. If an angel is sent from God, it's a messenger sent from God. So he's in communication with these churches, right? So that image is there's seven churches leading people to me and I'm communicating with and guiding these churches. And by the way, I am the creator God ready to judge the earth with the sword of righteousness in my mouth. So I'm with them, right?

Now the next time we see Jesus, he's going to be a baby. And then a slain lamb. And then all these other images until chapter 19, he's going to be this image again. Does that mean he's morphing back and forth? That means that John is describing what his significance is in each of these pictures. What he means to this moment, to this vision. And right now, he is already the immense ruler of the world in all creation that he will be again in chapter 19. He's letting you know he's already everything God will ever be. He's unchangeable. Don't be fooled by the changing images. So each time we see an image of Christ, the image is going to be rendered and surrounded in a rich, complex tapestry of known visual language images that reference things that we don't readily understand today.

So this summer, it's our job to help you make sure everybody knows what those images are. Back then, the people who read it would have just known from their previous education. Because while this letter is written from John to the seven churches in modern-day Turkey that he references in chapter 4, it is also a prophecy, right? He says this is a book of prophecy. So it's a letter containing prophecy. And I just want to recap with you guys real quickly from the Jonah series what prophecy is. A prophet is not a crystal ball gazer who tells the future. That is not a prophet. A prophet is someone who declares the word of God that God gave him this. And we're seeing at this moment how Jesus gave John this message. He said in chapter, in verse 1, God gave it to Jesus who sent an angel to pull up the curtain and show it to John and tell him to write it down, right?

So that's what happened. This is a letter of prophecy, which doesn't necessarily tell the future. Typically in prophecy, a prophet will say, if you disobey God, this will be the result. If you're obedient to me, if you have fidelity to me, these will be the blessings. So there's a possible future coming to you depending on how you behave is typically the word of a prophet. It wouldn't be surprising if that's what happens in this book. So when we're looking for what does this mean? How do we keep the words of this book? We should keep that in mind. Not only is it a prophetic text though, it also relies heavily on prophetic imagery and references to Old Testament prophecy. But it's also an apocalyptic text. And that makes it a little more complicated because apocalypse, and by the way, the name of this book is the apocalypsis.

That's the Greek word. And it means unveiling, uncovering what was formerly unknown. So there's a mystery. And by mystery, we don't mean puzzle that can be deduced. We mean thing you could never know unless somebody takes the cover off. This is like Schrodinger's cat, right? Until you look, you don't know what's there ever, right? So the mystery is revealed by an apocalypse. It's also revealed, that's why the book is called Revelation, because that's a translation of the word apocalypse. But an apocalyptic text is an imaginative form of literature that we don't use anymore. When I say imaginative literature, you think of poems, screenplays, novels, all narratives, right? With the possible exception of some poems, right? But they're still telling you kind of a thing that happened to me. The apocalypse is a set of images and a catalog of means of conveying, using word pictures,

the emotions and importance, significance of something that language can't convey. Telling you something totally out of context, which is what John is doing here. He's been thrust into the heavenly realm, has to tell us what he saw, and there's no words for those things. So he uses the catalog of apocalyptic imagery to tell us what it means and what the significance is and what's going to happen. If we, it's very important then that we take the time to figure out how to read an apocalyptic text. Because it's not an image we use, a type of writing we use anymore. It's used for revealing mystery, which standard language can't encapsulate. And it describes what is unseen using images of what is seen. So it has to use metaphors and images. This text is a fourth thing, and that is that it borrows very heavily from Roman national cult of imperialism.

There's any number of parallels between the language used in Revelation and the language used in propaganda in support of the Roman government. And that's more than we could go over today, but you should go back online and watch Dr. Silva's second session. He had four lectures yesterday. The second one covers that in a way that will blow some of your minds, but it will be very informative for everyone. So we have to read this very carefully. We have to read this book, I'd say cautiously. And by cautiously, I don't mean slowly and with trepidation. I mean eagerly, right? You want to read every word, but you have to know what it says before you say what it means. And you have to very eagerly read and know every word. Don't substitute in concepts that you've heard.

Don't speed past things that seem confusing. Read and know exactly what it says. And then we slowly go back and say, what does it mean? So we have to read it cautiously in that way. If we don't have the language of the prophets in mind as we read Revelation, we're just going to miss a lot of what John is telling us. That's evident even in that first image, right, of Jesus. If we're not familiar with the normal imagery of apocalyptic writing, we're likely to explain those images using our current catalog of life and literature. And that's going to be really misleading, because we don't use the images the same way anymore. If we're unfamiliar with Roman imagery, we're just going to miss it. We'll miss his snide takes on the propaganda of the time. We'll miss what the immediate and clear meaning was to that first century audience.

Which is, again, why you need to watch David De Silva's second session. In either case, when we read, if we read it without caution, we'll be attempting to provide a physical narrative explanation of images and actions that are emotive, metaphoric, and symbolic, and usually not narrative, right? So we need to be very cautious as we read it. Throughout the history of the church, many schools of interpretation have grown up, as people have really dug in and tried to understand Revelation. And what's important to understand is that there are multiple Orthodox schools of understanding this. If you take any of the major Orthodox schools of interpretation, there are significant, scholarly, respected, pious men who just came to different conclusions. And it's based a lot on their experience in their life and where they're coming from. We actually did a class for the last ten weeks.

If you were in that class, raise your hand. We just want people around the audience to talk to them. And we went through the major schools of understanding Revelation, so that we could understand what we've heard and where it lies in the pantheon of different ideas. There's four, the four basic schools are, one is that it mostly or all happened in the past, around the time that the temple was destroyed and Israel was invaded by Rome. That was the persecution and the persecutions that surrounded that. One school of thought says that the vast majority of Revelation refers to those events, which would have been a prophecy from John, but an hour distant past, right? The second school of thought is that it's kind of current. It takes the full sweep of church history from that time to the distant future of judgment,

and that we're just in the middle of it, right? And a third school of thought says that it's all in the future, either in the very near or very distant future, and that these events will play out in a way that's yet to be seen. And incidentally, there's a recent, it started in the 1800s but got popular in the 1970s, a recent version of the future understanding, which sees this all as very specific, usually Israel-focused geopolitical conflict. And that's the one we see in movies and novels and stuff that's gotten really popular. But that's a very new understanding of what Revelation can mean, just as a side note. And while there's a lot of people that talk about it today, historically it's unheard of among a lot of the church. But the fourth major understanding of how Revelation works is that it's patterns, right?

There will always be persecution and Christ will always come and bring righteousness. There will always be someone trying to replace God with current evil human systems. And God will have to always prevail over that. And if we stay faithful, we'll always be saved. So that's sort of the fourth one. So it's in the past, ongoing, in the present, in the future, or symbolic. There are sort of the four ways of understanding it. And again, wherever you fall, the main thing is to know that Jesus is at the center of all of those, right? You can read it every way, and I encourage you to study. I encourage you, after you've just read it through quickly and really gotten it in your head, go back and study what people have said. And you'll find there are authorities who, with great intent, really support each of those.

And that's not new. We know that within a generation of Revelation being written, the church leaders were already developing different schools. There's a quote from Justin Martyr, who lived in the mid-2nd century, so within a generation after Revelation was written probably, where they were disagreeing over what the millennial reign would mean in chapter 20. He says, Justin Martyr says, "I and many others of this mind are of this mind, and we believe that such will take place, as assuredly you're aware. But on the other hand, I signified to you that many who belong to the pure and pious faith, they're true Christians, and they think otherwise." And how is it that we can do that? The reason we can do that is there's something significant you need to realize. Everybody in Revelation that's undergoing persecution,

and either disobeying or cleaving to Christ, and being saved or being rejected, all of those people have already heard the gospel, right? You have to be a Christian before you can go be persecuted for being a Christian. So what it says in Revelation is not core to your faith. Understanding that He's the God of all creation, that He's saved for your sins, that there's a way back to God, that all happens. They became Christians, they formed churches, they were then persecuted for it, and then they needed a letter of solace to explain to them why it's worthwhile to stick with the program. And that's when we got Revelation. So while it's important, it's important for those that are already in the faith. It's important for those that are being persecuted or need to know that if persecution comes,

you need to plan ahead and be ready to stay by God, Jesus, even when bad stuff happens. Because, as He said, you will overcome persecution. In this world you'll have tribulation, but take heart, I have overcome the world. It's a given fact. It's already happened. Angels show John that it's already there in the heavenly realms that's already taken place, right?

So, the Brethren Church has a statement that I like very much on it, on the end times. It says, "By sending His Son, God inaugurated the last days. Therefore, the church waits eagerly for the consummation of the divine plan of Christ. The Bible does not focus so much on the details or on the order of the final events, but on how believers are to live in light of these things." That's what Revelation is here to tell us. How do you live in light of these things? There's witnesses in there. Are you prepared to be a witness? There are people that undergo persecution and persevere. Are you prepared to do that? We want to focus not on where we fall in these events. We will have hardship. Christ promised us that. It probably won't be exactly what we're imagining when we read Revelation.

Due to the limitations of language. But we will have hardship. We don't want to know where we fall. We want to know where Christ is in the events. And what we can know more about Him. How He is revealed. John himself expresses the importance of this correctness in the opening of his letter. When I started reading to you, I started in chapter 9, verse 9. I don't know if you noticed that when he says, "I, John, had a vision." That's nine verses in. So the salutation to the letter before that, "John to the seven churches," is in verse 4. And then there's three or four verses of blessing, which is theologically rich and worth reading. But before the salutation of the letter, unlike any other book in the New Testament, there's a little section at the top, which in many of your Bibles will be called the preface or something like that.

John didn't write that. He didn't know he was writing a preface, right? He was just writing a letter. But it was important to him that he said a little something before he got into the letter. And any attorneys here in the audience, if you look at verse 1, you're going to recognize this is a chain of evidentiary custody, right? This is how you prove the provenance of something. He says he's tracing. It went directly from God. It says, "This is the revelation of Jesus Christ." That's of and in. In the person of and about. Jesus Christ. Which God gave him." So there's God and there's Jesus. "To show to his servants." "Jesus' servants." That's the disciples. The apostles, right? "And showed his servants and everyone else who's joined in the church." "The things that must soon take place."

He, Jesus, made it known by sending his angel to his servant John. And John then bore witness to the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ, which are the same thing. Christ, the ever living luminous word of God. So he bore witness to the word of God and the testimony of Christ, even to all that he saw when the angel lifts up the curtain and points to it. And John's scribbling madly with a pen, right? He's got this reed in a cave on a penal colony island, and he's madly trying to write down what the angel shows him. So God gave it to Jesus to get an angel to show to John, to write it down so that in verse 3, "Blessed is he who reads it aloud," the words of this prophecy,

"and blessed are those who hear it and keep what's written in it for the time is near." That's a chain from God to you, unbroken. John is saying, "I didn't eat a pizza, go to sleep and have a bad dream," right? There's no one who's taken this and edited the wording. And to make sure of that, at the end of it, in chapter 22, verse 17, John says, "I warn everybody who hears the words of this prophecy of this book, if anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in the book. If anyone takes away from them, God will take away his chair and the tree of life in the holy city." He who testifies to these things, Jesus, says, "Surely I'm coming soon." And John says, "Amen, come Lord Jesus."

Because it's important that this chain of evidentiary certainty stays intact, right? Why is that? Because he knows it's complex. He knows there's a lot of room in here for people to fiddle with the words. He's seen what's happened with Daniel. That's happened historically, right? And he's saying, "It's important that we understand exactly what Jesus sold me so that you'll know that Christ is at the center of this and you'll know how to keep what's written here." So again, this is not to inspire fear. You are blessed if you hear these words and if you keep these words. Today, I'm the one reading, you're the one hearing, and we have to figure out how to keep them, right? So, importantly, you today are part of that chain of custody. The message has been given through the years and it's come to you

and you're responsible for keeping them safely. So be careful how you interpret. And you're careful not by living in fear, not by not touching it. You know, you don't bury the treasure. You take care of it. You invest in it. You get to know what it says. And you hear it in the way that the early first church said it, which is one reason. Again, this week, read it, hear it all at once out loud. That'll be the beginning of that process. Because Christ is at the center. Just as he is at the center of the lamps in that first vision, he's at the center of the churches still. We want to keep him at the center in this revelation of Jesus. This is the revelation of Jesus. When we read Revelation given to John,

we are seeing that righteousness will triumph in the person of Jesus at the end. We're looking at a revelation of Jesus. We're not decoding a riddle. We're not finding out what happens to ourselves. So we can't look to find ourselves in the book. We have to look to find Jesus. I want to say it like 10 more times. That's the key. Discover how you can live in accordance with this book. It's not what's going to happen to me, but it's how can I keep the words of this book, okay? So I'm going to pray, and then Ryan's going to lead us in communion. And I hope this is a really, really profitable summer as we go through Revelation. Father God, we so thank you for revealing your plans for the future. We thank you for giving us Christ.

We thank you for the salvation, the path back to you that he's provided. Thank you that you've told us how we should live, what we should do with ourselves. And I pray that we could always discriminate clearly between our needs, our desires, and your plans for our time. And I pray that we'd be willing to use it your way, use our time your way, that we'd be available to our neighbor, and that we would find those golden moments when we can yield to your righteousness instead of yielding to our own urges. Lord, allow us to slowly, slowly, and ever more quickly, come to the point where we always are giving in to your holy urges, Lord. Thank you for the opportunity we have to live in fealty to you. Bless everyone here as we go out this week, Lord. In Jesus' name, amen.
