REVELATION: Listening to King Jesus
2026-07-06
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RN3qPQxsrt4

Transcription by CastingWords Transcription by CastingWords It's wonderful to see you all as we continue week two of our series through the book of Revelation. You guys excited? Good, great, awesome. Well, as usual, Kent did an incredible job last week when we started the series setting the book up, giving us kind of a roadmap for what we should be expecting, what we're looking for moving forward. Before Kent preached on that Saturday, we had Dr. De Silva, who is a very reputable and well-known scholar who really focuses on the book of Revelation. All of those content, both Kent's sermon that sets up the series and Dr. De Silva's kind of four lectures are online. So if you haven't seen those, they will probably help you navigate the book for the rest of the series. So I'd love for you to check that out.

Just want you to know that that is available online, probably our website, definitely YouTube. Also, in your bulletin, I believe I have a book that is recommended for you. Obviously, because we are doing this book in about 13, nope, not 13, 10 weeks, because we're doing this book in about 10 weeks, it is 22 chapters long, and we're not going to be able to really get into the weeds with everything. We'll be doing kind of big, broad brush overviews, just like we did in the book of Ephesians. But if you want to go deeper yourself, I would recommend the commentary that's in the bulletin. It is very helpful. It is scholarly, but not too scholarly, very practical application, and so it should get you at the depth level that you want to be at without kind of losing the plot.

So I'd love to recommend that to you. And so far, the groundwork that has been laid on the book of Revelation is maybe different than what you have heard, depending on what your background is, and that is the book of Revelation is not a puzzle to be decoded, right? It is not primarily about future events. The book is a revealing of Jesus Christ to seven real churches in Asia Minor in the first century. And so we've got to approach the book. When we approach the book, we have to realize that it is literally a pulling back of the curtain. That's why we're doing this kind of half open, half closed. It's an optical illustration of what the book of Revelation is doing. It's opening up the heavenly realms, the present realities of the heavenly realms,

for seven real churches in the first century. It is written to encourage these churches who are struggling, to challenge these churches who are in rebellion, to wake up churches who are stagnant. The letter can't mean to us what it did not mean to them. So we've got to read it and try and best understand it in their context before we jump to application for us. And the primary message of the book of Revelation that encourages struggling churches, challenges rebellious churches, and wakes up stagnant churches is all the same. It is the risen Jesus reigning on his throne. That is the central theme of the book of Revelation. And it is a unseen reality until John opens up the curtain for us and shows us it. I love how Daryl Johnson in the book that I recommended summarizes the content of Revelation.

And if you want, you can throw up our graphic from the Ephesians series. Because I think this is a helpful reminder. You guys remember this from the Ephesians series if you were here? All right, so this is helpful for the book of Revelation as well, that we live in the present reality after the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. Those of us who have placed our faith in Jesus, we find ourselves in the church, in between the cross and the resurrection and new creation, God bringing heaven to earth. This is the prayer that may your kingdom come and your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We live in between these two moments where the kingdom of God has been inaugurated but not yet consummated. And you see how we kind of cut the curtain there open to the heavenly spaces.

That's what the gospel, or that's what the book of Revelation is doing. It's opening up to the church what the present realities of heaven are. And again, I love how Daryl Johnson summarizes it. He says this, Revelation sets the present realities in light of the unseen realities of the future. And it sets the present realities in light of the unseen realities of the present. And so what he's saying here is, Revelation is showing the church what heaven is like right now. As we speak, as we gather together, there is heavenly worship happening in the throne room right now. Next week, we're going to get a picture of what that looks like. John's pulling back the curtain. He's showing us what the heavenly places look like right now. So that we know, even when the empires of this world look powerful, even when things get hard, even when it looks like we are not victorious, we can be reminded of what is happening behind the curtain.

That Jesus is victorious, whether we see it or not. And there's a future reality where we will see it that we are waiting for. So this is the context for the book of Revelation, that we are in this already not yet space. And the book of Revelation opens up the curtain so that we can see what is presently happening in the spiritual heavenly places and what will happen in the future. And I love how Kent summarized his goal of the content last week. He said, the goal of this whole series is not to better understand what Revelation means. The goal is to understand what Revelation is calling us to do. Or how is the book of Revelation inviting us to live? The goal should not be just to understand what these images mean. The goal should be to understand what these images have to do with how we live in this present world.

And unfortunately, if I've got to be honest, pastorally, the book of Revelation is probably one of the books that many Christians love to study the most. And the thing that scares me is the way in which they study it is we found a way to study this book in such a way that it doesn't have any practical implications on our life whatsoever. And so I think there's this weird deception that the enemy is using where Christians feel good because they love to study the Bible. But they're only studying the book in a way that doesn't impact their everyday lives. And so what we want to do is we want to try and study this book in such a way that it challenges the way that we live. That it encourages us in the midst of our suffering and our difficulty.

That this message isn't just about decoding the future, but it's about our present reality right now. And hopefully today's message will get us one step further in this idea of how this book is calling us to live. And we're going to do a big overview of chapters two and three in the seven messages to the seven churches. Does that sound good to you all? Okay, let's do it. Let's pray and get started. We already started. That was, I preached a little bit there. It was a little preaching. All right, let's pray. Father, we love you. We thank you that you have given us a peek behind the curtain. That you have allowed us to see present spiritual realities that, if I'm honest, don't always feel like they're true. That in a world marred and broken by sin, in a world full of suffering and discouragement and difficulty, God, it can often feel as if the Christian life is one of defeat and sorrow and pain.

And yet you have opened up the curtain for us. You have shown us that the Christian life is worth persevering because there is present victory in heaven and future victory awaiting those of us who remain faithful to the lamb as though he is slain. And so, Holy Spirit, have your way in this gathering today. Speak to us through these messages to these real churches. God, these are real people with real lives and real cultural moments who really were suffering, who really were discouraged, who really were stagnant or missing the mark for what it means for them to be Christians. And those lives translate to our lives today. God, many of us in the room are suffering or persecuted or struggling. Many of us are stagnant. We need to wake up. Many of us are in rebellion.

We need to repent. God, these messages to these churches are not just an ancient text to be studied. It is your living and active word to pierce our hearts. God, do that through your word by the power of your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. All right, so we will read some in Revelation 1, 2, and 3. But for the most part, we're going to be doing some high-level, big-picture overviews. And what I want to ask today is, if you'll be honest with me, have you ever sat through the beginning of one of our services only to realize halfway through announcements that you have no clue what the person on stage said? All right. I was hoping you would say yes, because if you didn't, I was going to call your bluff. I actually have to pay for April, our office manager's therapy, because every week she says, you'll never believe somebody came up to me and said, when did we announce that we were doing this thing?

And she's in charge of announcements, and she's like, this day, this day, in this newsletter, through this text message, and on this. So, like, we're speaking, right? We are announcing. We are declaring. We are proclaiming these messages. But oftentimes, even though we're here, we're present, we're in the room, there's someone at center stage with a microphone. Your ears work. Their voice works. You hear every word coming out of their mouth, but the reality is you weren't really listening. And this is not me condemning you for not listening to announcements. It's just an illustration. If April was up here, she would be condemning you for not listening to announcements. And she might have a point. But right now, I'm just using this as an illustration, okay? I just want to get, okay. I don't want you to get convicted over the wrong thing, all right?

We're going to get to the conviction part later. This is just an illustration. All right. Because there is a difference between hearing sounds and giving someone your attention, right? We can hear people make words and declarations with their mouth, and we cannot process those things because we're not giving them our full attention. And in Revelation 2 and 3, Jesus repeats the phrase seven times, he who has ears to hear, listen to what the Spirit says to the churches. And I'm afraid what happens to these churches and what often happens to us is the same thing that happens to you during announcements, and that is Jesus is speaking to his churches. He is speaking to you, and maybe you hear his voice, but the question is, are you giving his voice your attention? Are you listening to what he is saying and turning and translating that listening into obeying?

The issue is not whether or not Jesus is speaking. He is. And John reveals that very clearly to us. The issue is whether or not we are listening. Or to take it a step further, whether or not we are giving him our undivided attention. And this is, Revelation is pulling back the curtain and saying there's two present realities at work here. Which one are you giving your undivided attention to? And how is that impacting your life? So with the rest of our time, again, I want to do a flyover of these two chapters so that we can better understand who is Jesus to his churches in Revelation 2 and 3. Who are the churches? How are they receiving this message? And what do these messages have to say about how we, in the 21st century, can function as the church in this present age,

where we're in between the kingdom being inaugurated and consummated, where we're suffering, we're discouraged, we're hurting, we're persecuted. How do we interact with the king who is sitting on the throne presently today? So that's the plan for the rest of our time. So first I want to look at who is Jesus to these churches. In Revelation, we're going to start in chapter 1. Starting in verse 10, it says this, I, John, was in the Spirit on the Lord's Day, and I heard a loud voice behind me like a trumpet saying, Write on a scroll what you see and send it to the seven churches. Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea. And then I turned to see whose voice it was that spoke to me. And when I turned, I saw, he saw seven golden lampstands,

and among the lampstands was one like the Son of Man dressed in a robe with a golden sash wrapped around his chest. And we skipped to verse 20, and we read, The mystery of the seven stars you saw in my right hand and of the seven golden lampstands is this. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches. And so right from the outset, before we even get to the messages that is going to be given to the seven churches, the picture that we see of Jesus is one like a Son of Man who is walking among his churches. In verse 13, I don't want us to miss this. This is so beautiful. It's so powerful. And among the lampstands, it could be translated, in the middle of the lampstands was one like the Son of Man dressed in a robe.

And then verse 20 tells us very clearly, what are the seven lampstands? They are the seven churches. What John wants us to know before we ever get a message from Jesus is that this Jesus walks among his churches. The same Jesus who is risen and reigning and sitting on a throne is present and active among his churches. He doesn't just rule and reign from a throne far away, but he is present and active in the middle of his churches. Before Jesus says anything to his churches, we need to know that who he is, that he is not just simply giving us an encouraging word from a wise teacher, that he is the Son of Man, risen from the dead, reigning and present. He is already on the throne. Caesar may appear powerful. The Romans may treat him like God.

The empire may appear to rule, but Jesus alone is the true authority. This is the pulling back of the curtain. This is the apocalypse. This is the revelation. John is setting the visible present reality in light of the unseen realities of the present. And importantly, for struggling churches that exist in the Roman Empire, Jesus isn't just reigning from heaven. He is present in the middle of his churches. Each message that he gives is extremely, extremely contextual. Seven times we read the phrase, I know from Jesus to these seven churches. I know your works. I know your suffering. I know your compromise. I know your weakness. Jesus is among his churches. He is not sitting far away and distant. He is present and he knows what's going on in our seven churches. He knows where we're faithful.

He knows where we aren't. The risen and reigning king of the universe is present. He sees what no one else does and he knows what is true of us even before we know it is true of ourselves. And even more, each church gets a unique message with a unique title and encouragement, a challenge, a rebuke, a promise, a reward. These are personalized messages as if the church would almost be like, okay, yeah, risen, reigning Jesus, you're present with us. Cool. That's a cool story. I'm glad to know that. That seems very kind of sentimental, but Jesus takes it a step further and the message that he gives the church proves to them that he knows them, that he understands their situation. They're all unique messages. My favorite, one commentator writes this. There's actually an archeologist who studied the seven cities

as they were in the first century. He says, the messages of these churches, the messages that Jesus gave these churches were shaped by their unique character and circumstances. Even the content of the message shows that Jesus is in the midst of his churches, that he knows who they are. My favorite illustration or example of this, we'll get to more on this later as we move on, but to the Philadelphian church. We read at the end of Jesus' message to the Philadelphian church, he tells them what their reward will be if they remain faithful to him. And at the end of every message is the promise of a reward if you remain faithful. And the reward to the Philadelphian church, he says, I will make you a pillar in the temple. And what's so beautiful about this is what we know about the first century church in Philadelphia

is that it was a common occurrence for the city of Philadelphia to experience earthquakes. That it was a common experience for architecture to crumble in the midst of the city of Philadelphia because of the turmoil of these earthquakes. And Jesus, the king who is among his churches, speaks a word of encouragement to this church who is struggling with the decaying city of earthquakes. And he says, if you persevere, I will make you a pillar in the temple. He's speaking directly to his churches. He's in the middle of his churches.

Jesus, presently reigning, knows you personally. He knows your situation. He knows your circumstances. He knows what you're going through. He knows where you're suffering. He knows where you're rebelling. He knows where you're missing the mark. He knows where you're hiding. He knows us as a church. He knows where we're successful. He knows where our shortcomings are. And he speaks to us in the middle of where we are presently. He wants to encourage us, challenge us, rebuke us. He wants to keep us moving forward in obedience. The Jesus that is presently risen and reigning, he knows you. He knows us. And he has a word for us by his spirit through the Scriptures. All right, so that's who Jesus is in Revelation 1 and 2. Now, we want to better understand kind of how we should view ourselves as the church

in this present reality with the curtain being torn back. Like, what are we to Jesus? How do we function? What is our relationship to him? So, again, we don't have time to read all of these churches. I'm going to read one message in Revelation 2, starting in verse 8. And really, the reason I'm reading this is I want you to see the form of the message. Because every single message, all seven messages follow the same pattern, the same form. So, let's just focus on the form more than the specifics. And we'll get to the specifics later. Okay? You with me? Okay, thank you. Revelation 2, verse 8. Write to the angel of the church in Smyrna. Thus says the first and the last, the one who was dead and came to life. I know your affliction and your poverty, but you are rich.

I know the slander of those who say they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. Do not be afraid of what you are about to suffer. Look, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison to test you, and you will experience affliction for 10 days. Be faithful to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of life. Let anyone who has ears to listen to what the Spirit says to the churches, the one who conquers, will never be harmed by the second death. So again, before we get too focused on the overarching challenges facing the specific churches, I want to look at this repeated form. Every single message follows this same form. Jesus repeats this seven times, and that's symbolic and for a reason. He says,

To the church of, fill in the blank, Ephesus, Smyrna, Thyatira, Laodicea, to the church of, thus says, thus says, write to the angel of the church, thus says, and then a title of Jesus. And each title, again, is contextualized to the situation of the churches. To Smyrna, this is a church that is suffering and being persecuted, and some of them are being martyred. And so the title that he gives the church of Smyrna is, he says, thus says, the first and the last, the one who was dead and came back to life. He's speaking tenderly to a church who is watching some of their members being killed for the sake of Jesus. And he says, thus says, the one who was dead and raised back to life. He's immediately trying to encourage this church who is suffering, don't, don't be overcome by your suffering.

I suffered and I rose, and just as I rose, you will rise with me. It's a message of hope. Thus says, a title, a contextualized title, and then there's going to be commendation of faithfulness. So to the church of, special title, here's what you're doing well, minus two churches. Two churches don't really get any encouragement. So, you know, take, that's possible. It's possible that churches are doing so bad that Jesus is like, let's just get to the correction. You guys really need some help. I pray that that's not us, but who knows, okay? Thus says, title, encouragement. Here are the things you're doing well. Confrontation for unfaithfulness. Here are the things that you're losing sight of. Here's where you're missing the mark. Here's where I need you to wake up, repent, open your eyes, figure some stuff out, right?

Minus two churches. So two churches don't get any encouragement, and two churches don't get any consequences. It's just like, you guys are doing great. And then at the end, he will offer these, again, contextualized announcements of blessings and cursings. If you are faithful, if you wake up, if you repent, if you heed my words, if you listen, right, not just hear, but if you listen to my words, you will conquer and you will receive blessing. But if you do not, there's threats, right? I will take the lampstand away. You will lose your influence and your power, right? There's blessings and cursings. And to each church, the message starts. And I want to focus on this word church so that we make sure we understand how we are to function in relationship to the risen and reigning king who walks among his churches.

And this is a word that we use all the time, and it's so common to us that we do not, we miss the cultural impact that it would have had on the first century. The Greek word ekklesia, it's translated church, it's so common to us, it's just what we think of about a gathering of believers in a building like this. But to them, it had massive cultural implications. Ekklesia in the first century was not primarily a religious word. It was a secular word. One scholar translates it this way, that the word ekklesia literally in the first century Greek meant a gathering of citizens to conduct civic business. This is a group of people who were coming together to make decisions for the empire, to make decisions for their township, to do civic duty. And John and the apostles and Jesus intentionally co-opt this word and use it for the gathering of believers.

And I think what we should get here is that when John gives us a peek behind the curtain, he emphasizes that the church in the New Testament, much like Israel in the Old Testament, is God's sovereign nation on earth. Jews and Gentiles, male and female, slave and free, we are all gathered together as one new people, citizens of one new kingdom, under the reign and rule of Jesus. This is a politically charged word aimed at our primary allegiance. No longer boundaried by one geographic location, but spread across the world. Even the choice to use the word church is saying something about how we should function to our risen and reigning king. Saying it looks like Rome is in power. It looks like Rome is persecuting, but I am on the throne. Are you a citizen of Rome or are you a citizen of the kingdom?

Are you gathered together to do kingdom business or are you gathered together to do Roman business? And this is going to lead into some of the correcting messages to some of the churches because some of the churches are more concerned with their success and their power and their influence in Rome than they are in the kingdom of the agenda of God's kingdom moving forward. Do we understand the influence, the implications here? So he says to the church, and then every message starts with a thus says. So on top of it being a message to the church, the rest of the form also tells us something about how we should interact with Jesus, the risen, reigning king. Many scholars point out that the form, thus says, title, encouragement, blessing, cursing, all of that, the pattern we just talked about, that it actually overarching looks like two types, two genres of literature that the audience would have been familiar with.

Okay. The first genre is Old Testament prophetic oracles. So if you go back, you read Ezekiel, you read Isaiah, you read Hosea. Like when the prophet would speak to God's people on behalf of God, he would say things like, thus says Yahweh, here's where you're doing good. Here's where you're doing bad. Here's what you need to do to repent, to change your ways. And if you repent, here's the blessing that God will give. If you do not repent, here's what will happen. Right? That's the pattern that we see in Revelation. This is a familiar pattern that the Jews specifically would have been very familiar with. They would have heard, okay, God is, this is Yahweh speaking to us, like a, this is John speaking like a prophet of Yahweh to the church. Okay? But the other thing that many scholars point out is that it also follows some very similar patterns to first century imperial edicts.

So again, think about Ezekiel, so Rome would gather a township of people together for civic duty, civic business, and somebody would come and read an imperial edict from the Roman Empire, and the imperial edict would say, thus says the governor of such and such. You guys are a great Roman city doing these things. You're also doing these things that we need you to stop doing in order to be good Roman citizens. And if you don't, we'll do empire things to you. Okay? So what I want to say is that the term, the use of ekklesia in the form of the letters is communicating two really clear things to the first century that we miss when we just read it in English. That we miss when we just try and read it as if it's a message to us and not to these first century churches.

And that is that good Jewish Christians would have understood that John was speaking to them as a prophet on behalf of Yahweh. And good Gentile Christians would have heard, wow, this sounds a lot like how our governor talks to us when he gathers us together for civic business. They would have heard a king inviting them to be faithful and productive citizens. And the point that I want to make is that Revelation is extending, in my opinion, it's extending both of these invitations as a package deal. The church is both worshipers summoned before a holy God and citizens summoned before a reigning king. The two cannot be separated. And oftentimes in American Christianity, we want to separate these two things. We just want to be worshipers before a holy God. And then we want to be American citizens that may or may not have implications on the kingdom of God in our everyday lives.

And so I just want to make sure we don't lose sight of what's happening in the first century. And two cannot be separated. Revelation 2 and 3 reminds us that we are citizens of another kingdom and that our king requires ultimate allegiance. I love what Dr. De Silva said last Saturday. He said, the church of Jesus Christ is the largest political movement in the world. He said, we are two billion strong. We do not need to elect anyone to move God's agenda forward in the world. If we are an ecclesia, all Christians, brothers and sisters from every tribe, language, nation, and tongue, if we gather together under the reign and rule of King Jesus, we can move his kingdom agenda forward just by being obedient to his voice. And I don't think that it's a coincidence that we find ourselves in this text on the week of America's 250th anniversary.

And I need to be careful, okay? Everybody just take a deep breath. Exhale. It's okay. I promise I'll be all right. It's just a short rant and then I'll get off my soapbox, okay? And I realize that I'm a minority voice in this conversation. And I have to be careful because many of you have, we've had these conversations, I get called unpatriotic. And I don't think that's fair. I've got to be honest with you. You should see me, you should see me when the United States is playing in the World Cup, okay? You call me unpatriotic when I'm at the house watching the U.S. play the World Cup, okay? All right? Never mind. I'm not going to make that joke. All right. I love our country. I am so thankful to live in this country.

I'm thankful for the systems that are in place to give us freedoms and to keep us safe. I'm thankful that I can stand on this platform. That was bought with money that is tax exempt because our government finds value in the church. I'm thankful for all of these things. I'm extremely grateful to live here. But the reality is whether we acknowledge it or not, America and the kingdom of God are not synonyms. Okay? There's the kingdom of God, primary allegiance. The thing that we are being invited to be our citizenship to is first the kingdom of God. And yes, America has many Christian values built into its founding documents, and many of our founders were likely faithful followers of Jesus. But that does not mean that our secular government and the kingdom of God are synonyms.

The agenda that many in charge of our nation want to move forward is not the agenda of the kingdom of God. And there might be some overlap at times, but they're often at odds with one another. And what happens, I'm afraid, is that when we get so fixated on America's success, on America's flourishing, that oftentimes America does things that do not align with the kingdom of God, and Christians just find a way to pretend like it does align with the kingdom of God. And our primary revelation is going to, over and over again, put these two things at odds with one another and not say don't value the country that you live in. There's all of this text about live for the flourishing of the people that you live among. It's not that we don't care about the success of America.

It's just that when those two things come at odds, our primary allegiance is to the kingdom of Jesus. And I fear that many of us have been discipled to be Americans first, Christians second. The book is regularly going to confront us with this reality. The form of the message given to the seven churches is Jesus calling us to give our primary allegiance to him. All right, that's enough. Soapbox is done. Can we take another deep breath?

All right, and seriously, I know that this is not the majority message that's being given from pulpits across the country on our 250th anniversary. And so what I want you to do is if you have problems with what I'm saying and you think that it's not reflected in the words of Jesus, in the message of Scripture, please don't like just leave the church out the back door and say, that guy's crazy. I'm going to go find a church that celebrates, that's patriotic. Please send me an email. Please sit down and have coffee with me because I could be wrong. You could be wrong. The reality is we're probably both a little bit wrong.

And the kingdom of God is far too important for us to separate over secondary issues. Okay, my soapbox is done. We've got to move on. All right. Now, does anybody wonder why there's seven churches? Why not eight? Why not 11? Why not four? Right? And why these seven churches particularly? Well, seven is a, the Jews would have immediately heard that this is a number of completeness. This is a symbolic number. Many scholars believe Jesus wrote to these seven churches because they represent the overarching challenges that all churches throughout all history will face. Or at least every church can be encouraged or rebuked by one of these messages. So the theory is that all seven of these messages, the way Jesus speaks to these seven churches is a message that all the churches throughout history will need.

So that the church in, the underground church in China can read through Revelation 2 and 3 and they can get something for where they're at in their current cultural moment. That the Revelation 2 and 3 speaks to the underground church in China and to the church in America and South Africa and name your country, right? The reality is we think that Jesus gave these churches, these messages because the overarching, if you just read all of them, you can get something for every church in all time. And again, we don't have time to cover the specifics of all seven churches. But as I was studying and praying and considering what all of these messages say, I saw three competing voices that I think show up, if I were to give categories that fit into all seven,

there's three voices that are in all seven churches distracting the church from listening to the voice of Jesus. Remember seven times Jesus says, hear, he who has ears to hear, listen to what the Spirit is saying. There are voices that are at work in all seven churches that are trying to distract the church from hearing the voice of God, distract the church from paying attention to the voice of God, distract the church from giving their total allegiance to the voice of Jesus. Every church Jesus writes to is facing unique circumstances and challenges. But underneath every message is the same question, whose voice will shape God's people? Whose voice will the church listen to? And the body of each message confronts the churches with the voices that are in competition for their attention. And the invitation again at the end of each message is he who has ears, listen to the Lamb who is risen and reigning and you will conquer. That's the message overly seven times. You will conquer to the one who has ears, listen and you will conquer. You will overcome.

So, three voices. Number one, we're doing all right. We'll figure it out. All right. Deception. Both Pergamum and Thyatira were threatened by the voices of deception. Whether it be false teachers who are teaching them things in the Scriptures that aren't true, that are leading them astray by manipulating the Scriptures to make it say what they want it to say for their own profit, or by culture, promising them that they can follow Jesus and simultaneously enjoy the value system of the culture around them. These are voices of distraction that are seeking to lead the church astray from listening to the voice of Jesus. False teachers distorting biblical truth, telling Christians what they want to hear for their own profit or reputation. And if you follow Christian leaders that have massive social media platforms today, I will tell you that this distraction, this deception still exists.

Or you can find, you can find a religious teacher who will tell you what you want to hear. And oftentimes, if we step back and figure out why their platforms are so big, many times it's because they get a, they make profit by telling you what you want to hear. This happens today in the church. Cultural systems invite Christians to keep their Christianity private while publicly conforming to the practices of secular culture. Still happens today. To both of these voices of deception, the invitation from Jesus is to repent. He gives different invitations to different voices. The voice to deception is repent. You're being led astray. You have bad ideas. Change your mind. Believe what is true. Don't believe the lie. The second voice is that of distraction. Ephesus, Sardis, and Laodicea are all distracted from the voice of Jesus by lesser things.

In Ephesus, it's doctrinal purity without loving their neighbors. Literally says, you can spot a false teacher from a mile away, but you do not have love in your heart.

Does that exist in the American church today? Are there people that are obsessed with, with theology and with getting doctrine right who don't look anything like Jesus in the way that they behave or treat their neighbor? Ministry busyness is Sardis' issue. They're, they're full of activity. The church is doing all kinds of stuff. But Jesus says, your works are incomplete. You're just busy for busyness sake. You're just doing things that aren't providing kingdom value, but you're feeling good about what you're doing because you're staying busy. You're distracted from real kingdom work with ministry busyness. Does this happen today in the church? Does this happen in our church? Laodicea, you're distracted by worldly wealth and success without kingdom impact. You care way more about what your bank accounts look like, about what your outfits look like than you do the kingdom of God.

And these distractions still threaten individuals and churches to this day. Many Christians love theology, but not their neighbors. We're busy running programs as churches that aren't building the kingdom. We care more about comfort and success than we do what Jesus is calling us to. And the voice of distraction is more subtle than false teaching. It happens slower. It happens over time. You add a program here, you add a program there, you upgrade your car, you do this, you do that. It happens slowly over time. And before you know it, your primary affection is on the distraction rather than Jesus. And the message that Jesus gives to the churches that are distracted is not repent, it's wake up. Be alert. You're losing focus. Wake up. See what you're doing. You're being distracted. You're being lulled to sleep by busyness and by distraction.

Wake up. He who has ears to hear, listen. The last voice is that of discouragement. Both Smyrna and Philadelphia were enduring persecution faithfully. It's no accident that, remember I said there's two churches that didn't receive any correction? It's the two churches that were suffering that didn't receive any correction. And my hunch is that they're not perfect churches, but they're enduring suffering faithfully. And so Jesus isn't going to come to them when they're down and be like, nitpick a few things over here. Let me tell you what you're doing wrong. No, he comes to them with encouragement because they're suffering. But he warns them that this voice of discouragement can lead them astray. That if they keep on being discouraged, they might lose sight of the fact that Jesus died and has risen. That the one on the throne looks like a slain lamb.

That oftentimes our victory, our conquering in Jesus can look like suffering. But it's when we're in the midst of the suffering that we can take our eyes off of Jesus and just avoid suffering rather than to lead on to Jesus. The message to these churches is to hold on. Cling to me, Jesus says. It's not wake up. It's not repent. It's hold on. Cling to me in the midst of your suffering. And because of all the things, all of the wonderful, beautiful, thankful things we said about our country, the church in America, for pretty much all situations, we're not being persecuted for being Christians in America. But just imagine with me, our brothers and sisters in places all over the country, all over the world where it's illegal to be Christians. Imagine with me them reading the message to Sardis.

And thinking about their brothers and sisters from 2,000 years ago who faithfully endured suffering and conquered. Imagine them reading, thus says the first and the last, the one who was dead and came to life again. I know your affliction. I know your poverty. But you are rich. Far more rich than anyone in your country who has all of the material worldly success. Let me pull back the curtain for you and show you what is the true meaning of this life. You, persecuted church, you are rich.

He says, don't be afraid of what you are about to suffer. Look, the devil is going to throw some of you into prison. Again, he's reminding them, your struggle is not against flesh and blood. The people that are throwing you in prison are not your enemies. Satan is your enemy. This is why people like Paul get thrown into prison and witness to the people keeping the jail because he knows that guy's not my enemy. That person on the other political aisle, that person with that opinion, they're not my enemy. They're a neighbor to be loved. Satan is the real enemy. And I love what he says. You will experience affliction for 10 days. I don't think he literally means 10 days. I think what he's saying is the devil is on a leash. He can only do so much.

Look who's on the throne. Peel back the curtain. I have conquered. I am reigning. You might suffer temporarily right now, but it is a short-term suffering. And if you keep your eyes on me, if you cling to me, if you hold tight to me, you will conquer. He who has ears, listen. And as a church in America, we might not be persecuted for our faith, but many of us as individuals in the room are suffering through no fault of our own. Whether it's spiritual attack or you're just facing the consequences of living in a broken world, I think the same message from Jesus applies to you today. Hold on. Cling to me. And I got to be honest with you, I'm, I'm. Thanks. My family's in a season where we're going through some suffering. And if I'm honest,

the discouragement there, the voice that speaks into my life is not a voice that's telling me to cling to Jesus. And I know if that's my experience, that many of you are having that experience, that you are suffering and that what Jesus is telling you this morning is cling to me. Hold on to me. Your suffering is temporary. It will go away. I have risen and am reigning and conquered all of the consequences of the sin that you're going through. But there's other voices trying to get you to just numb out, to just forsake the Lord, to just get comfortable, to seek relief from your pain in any way, shape, or form. And the message that Jesus wants me to hear and you to hear and those of us that are suffering is hold on to me.

Your suffering is temporary, but faithfulness to me leads to eternal conquering. He who has ears, listen. This, I would argue, is the overarching point of Revelation 2 and 3. He who has ears, listen. Jesus is speaking to his church, but so is the enemy through deception, distraction, discouragement. And there's a difference between hearing the voice of Jesus and listening to the voice of Jesus because if I'm honest right now, I'm hearing his voice and listening is like 20% of the time. Which voice will you listen to? To whom will you give your primary allegiance? The church overcomes by listening to the voice of King Jesus over every competing voice. John was given a message to the seven churches and for the church as a whole, for us. And that message is, while earthly kingdoms appear to rule,

the risen Christ is on his throne. Let me peel back the curtain for you. While competing voices grow louder, Jesus walks among his churches and speaks to them by his spirit. Are we listening? The church overcomes by listening to the voice of King Jesus over every competing voice. He who has ears, listen. Father in heaven, we thank you for these seven messages to these seven real churches, our brothers and sisters in Christ, saints who have gone before us, who have run the race with endurance, who have stepped on landmines for us to show us how easy it is to be distracted, to be deceived, to be discouraged, for those faithful witnesses who have endured, who have conquered. We give you thanks. And God, we pray that we would run the race with endurance, that those of us

who have given in to false teaching, to believing that we can be, that we can give our primary allegiance to you and worldly pleasures and whatever that other thing might be. God, give us ears to hear, to repent. For those of us that are distracted, wake us up. Help us to see that we've kind of drifted away from our allegiance to you and we've found value in lesser things. For those of us that are discouraged, God, help us to cling to you, to hold tight, to not lose sight, that he who listens and obeys will conquer. He'll make us a pillar in the temple. He'll give us the crown of life. And God, for our little local church here in Winchester, God, give us as church leaders and church members eyes to see how you would encourage us

this morning, how you would say, I see you, I know you're doing these things and there's value. And God, help us to see and know where we need correction. We need clarity moving forward. Do all of it so that we might better demonstrate your kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, as we conclude service today, I have a special element that I think is happening. And that is, as we were talking about just churches all across the globe and the country, we have a family that has been plugged into our church for a little over a year now. Peyton and Taylor. I've never said their name out loud in front of them, so now I'm really afraid I'm going to pronounce it wrong. Is Taylor here? Taylor!

Let's see. That's what I thought. What? What? Is that wrong? All right, perfect. Hear the voice behind the curtain. Peyton and Taylor and their kids have been with us for over a year now. And many of you know them, many of you don't. They came here to do ministry through Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and God had a totally different plan for them. And so Peyton has accepted a role as the next-gen pastor at Engage Church in, get this, make note of this in your prayer book for them, especially around wintertime, Mandon, North Dakota. Yeah. And so what I wanted to do since this is, Peyton's been in North Dakota for like a month now, and this is Taylor and the kids last Sunday with us. Hi. This is Theo and Myra and Jackson, I'm assuming,

stayed in class like a good sweet boy. And so I just wanted us as a church to pray for them, to bless this new ministry that they are stepping out into, and what, because we've already mentioned at the beginning that you guys don't really listen to announcements. Look at this, look at this beautiful family, and let me just tell you that they may or may not need help loading up a U-Haul truck sometime on Tuesday or Wednesday of this week. So if any of you have college students that have muscles or, you know, you have daytime availability, I'm, unfortunately, I'm going to be in Colorado. So unfortunately, I can't help them move. I'm really like, I'm sorry. Dinner with me? I can't cancel that again. All right, sorry. I'm like, never mind. What's up, kiddos?

Hey, we're going to miss you guys. We're super thankful for you and for your mommy and your daddy. Yeah? Okay. I love you. All right. Well, if you would extend your hands towards Taylor and the kids with me as we just send them off, commission them into this new ministry, God in heaven, Jesus who walks among his churches in Winchester and in North Dakota, the same risen and reigning Jesus who walks among this church, walks among the church that this family is headed to, God, and we just pray blessing. We pray comfort. We pray peace. We pray for friends and family who see them that this new church would become like family quickly, that they would feel safe and welcome into the community, that you would empower them by your spirit to do all that you're calling them to do.

God, that this church would be a church that remains focused on Jesus, that this family would be raised up in the Lord, that these children would know, come to know the risen and reigning Jesus who sits on the throne. God, we just pray that you would bless them and keep them. You would make your face shine upon them and be gracious to them, that you would turn your face towards them and give them your shalom, your peace. Amen. This is what Taylor looks like. So if you have muscles and are available on Tuesday or Wednesday, come find her, come find me, I'll get your phone numbers and we will get them all sent off to North Dakota. Thank you so much. Yep. All right. Church, go in peace. We love you. What's up, dude? This is the longest you've ever lived. Thank you.
